320 Route 42. VENICE. h. Etcunions.

basilica of 1509. Between the 2nd and 3rd. altars on the right is a
large Madonna with saints and angels by Gioc. Bellini (1488; much
injured and retouched); near the door of the sacristy, to the left, an
Assumption by Marco Basaiti or Bissolo. — We now cross the main
canal by the Ponte Vivarini and follow the Fondamenta Csvonr to
the right, with the canal on our left, passing the Museum (see
below), to the —

Gasman. or SAN Dona'ro, a building of very ancient origin,
said to have been completed about 970, but largely rebuilt in the
12th cent., with a ﬁne choir.

The Interior, restored since 1858, is in the form of a basilica with
nave and aisles, with transept resting on piers. The open roof is borne
by columns of Greek marble. The mosaic pavement, which resembles
that of St. Mark‘s, bears the date iiii. In the left aisle over the door,
Madonna with saints and angels, by Lazaro Sebauiasu‘ (l‘8d); to the leﬂ,
coloured relief in wood of St. Donatus (1310); in the more elevated chapel
adjoining is a Roman tombstone of the family Acilia, formerly used as
a font. In the apse, a B zantine mosaic of the interceding ladonna;
below it, frescoes of the th century.

The Museo Civico in the Municipio presents an interesting ex-
hibition of the products of the celebrated glass-industry (ade/gfr.)

The Venetian Gases Innusrnr, of ve ancient origin, was ﬁrst estab-
lished by Bynntine lass-workers. The rst glass-foundries were within
Venice itself. After 289, however, their number was gradually reduced,
owing, it is said, to the danger of tire and the disagreeable eii‘ecis of the
smoke; and Murano, where a furnace is related to have been in operation
in 1255, ultimately became the sole seat of the manufacture, which attained
its seuith in the iii-16th centuries. In the 18th cent. owing to the taste for
the harder glass of England and Bohemia and the invention of the art of
making large mirrors in France, the Venetian glass-industry declined so
much that many of its old art-secrets were lost, but since 1859 it has e 'oyed
renewed pros erit , mainly owing to the discoveries and eiforts of lesser
A. Balviati (1316- . Perhaps the most beautiful of the objects produced
here are the extraordinarily thin and fragile but richly-decorated vessels,
some coloured and others plain, which assume the most fantastic shapes.
These were admired in the days of the Renaissance and they are made to
the present day. Chandeliers and mirrors. wreathed with ﬂowers and
foliage. are also produced here; and the mosaic-painters, for whom the
church of St. Mark has been a continuous school for centuries, once more
receive commissions from all parts of Europe. The chief ﬁrms are men-
tioned at p. 263. The attendance of gondoliers or guides should be en:-
phatically declined by visitors to the factories. Admission to the larger
factories sometimes requires a permesso, to be obtained in Venice. The
factories are, of course, closed on Sundays and holidays.

3. An Excunsron T0 Bumo AND Toacauo, situated on two
islands about 6 M. to the N.W. of Venice, is interesting to students
of art. A steamer plies to these island-towns twice daily (return-
fares 1fr. 75, 70 c.), and the steamer to Cavazuccherina, starting
from the Fondsments Nuove (Pl. H, 3), also touches twice daily at
Burano (fares 50, 30 c.), whence Torcello may be reached in 10 min.
by gondola, During summer an excursion-steamer, starting from
the Riva degll Schiavoni at 1 p.m. on Tues., Thurs., & Sat, plies
to both islands (return-fare 2 fr.), allowing ample time to visit the
objects of interest. — At Dunno (Leone Ooronato, d6]. 2 fr.), I

