522 Route 59. POGGIO IMPERIALE. Environs

and Florence, and probably dates mainly from the 11th century.
It is a structure of noble proportions, with nave and aisles, without
a transept, and is in many respects a truly classical ediﬁce. The
elegantly-incrusted facade dates from the 11th, the mosaics (re-
peatedly restored) with which it is adorned from the beginning of
the 13th century. The tower was rebuilt by Baccio d’Agnolo in 1519.

The Isranron contains 12 columns and 3 triple piers of greyish green
marble, and its open roof (1357) is tastefully re-decorated in the original
style. The choir with its simple apse is raised by a spacious crypt beneath.
The beautiful niello pavement (executed in 1207) also deserves inspection.
- To the left of the entrance is the monument of Giuseppe emu, the
satirist (d. 1850).

Arena. 0n the wall on the right, Enthroned Madonna and six saints
by Paolo dt‘ Stefano (1426); on the left, 3 Madonna with saints and
a Cruciﬁxion, of the beginning of the 15th century. In the RAVI, be-
tween the ﬂi hts of steps (16) ascending to the choir, is a chapel con-
structed in 1 by Michelouo for Piero de‘ Medici; on the frieze appears
the device of the Medici consisting of three feathers in a diamond-ring
with the legend ‘Semper . Over the altar is the small cruciﬁx which is
said to have nodded approvingly to San Giovanni Gualberto when he for-
gave the murderer of his brother (p. 631). In the Lan Ann is the Chapel
of San Giacomo, constructed in 1461-67 by Antonio Rousitino and containing
his masterpiece, the °Monument of Cardinal Jacopo of Portugal (d. 1459),
above which is a Madonna and Child in a medallion held by two angels.
The frescoes are by Alessto Baldoainstti; on the ceiling, {our Virtues by
Luca delta Robbta. — The 'CRYPT, to which a ﬂight of seven steps de-
scends, does not rest on the four columns which are prolonged into the
choir above, but on 28 smaller columns of graceful form, some of them
ancient. Beneath the altar here is the tomb of San Miniato (d. 254). —-
The front-wall of the crypt, the screen of the Cﬂorn, the apes, the whole
wall of the nave, and the pulpit present beautiful specimens of incrusted
marble-work (11th cent.) The upper part of the Area is adorned with a
mosaic of Christ, with the Madonna and San Miniato, executed in 1”? ('1),
restored in 1860. The ﬁve windows under the arches are closed with
translucent slabs of marble. Over an altar on the right is an old portrait
of San Giovanni Gualberto (see above). — 0n the 8. side of the choir 'u
the Sscxrsrr (closed), erected in 1387 in the Gothic style adorned with
sixteen (freely restored) trescoes from the life of St. Benedict (his youth.
ordination at Subiaco, miracles) by Spindle Amino (d. IMO). Below them.
admirable inlaid work in wood.

((2.) Pooero lnrnnrnn AND Tonnn AL GALLo. Outside the
Ports Romans (Pl. A, 7; omn., p. 434), to the right of the Vials dei
00111 (p. 520), is a ﬁne avenue of lofty cypresses and evergreen
'oaks, interspersed with four mutilated statues from the old facade
of the cathedral (p. 452), leading past Gelsomino (on the right),
the terminus of an electric tramway (No. 8; p. 434) and a station on
the steam-tramway to the Certosa (p. 523). In 20 min. it reaches
the high-lying Villa Poggio Imperiale, thus named and almost
entirely ﬂtted up by Magdalena of Austria, wife of Cosimo 11., in
1622. The handsome ediﬁce is now occupied by the Istituto ddla
Santiasima Annunciata, a girls’ school, and is not accessible.

From 'Poggio we proceed to the left to the Via San Leonardo
(p. 520), and then, at the fork, follow the Via del Plan d1 Giullafi
In the right, passing the Reale Osscryatorio, and reach (V4 1112)!
<ma11 piazza at the top of the ridge, where the road again divides.

