478 Route 58. rnomcn. c. Church of

effect, enhanced by its numerous monuments of celebrated men.
This church may be called the Pantheon of Florence, and its interest
is greatly increased by the frescoes of Giotto and his successors
Taddeo Gaddi, Giottino, Giovanni do Mllano, Agnolo Gaddr’, etc.
(best light in the morning). The baroque alters were erected by
Giorgio Vasari in 1566, by order of Cosimo I.

Enrnancn WALL. Over the control door are a' window ﬁlled with
stained glass (Descent from the Cross) from drawings ascribed to Lore-w
Ght'berlt, and a bronze statue of St. LOuis by Donatello (1‘23).

Racer Arena. On the right, beyond the ﬁrst altar, Tomb of Michael
An elo, whose remains repose below it (0.. at Rome, 1158‘), erected in
157 after Vamri‘s design, the bust by Banister Lorena”, the ﬁne ﬁgure of
Architecture (on the right) by Giovanni dall‘ Opera, Painting and Soul lure
by Lorenn' and Valerie otolt'. — On the pillar opposite, the "1! our:
del Lette‘, a relief by Rossemna, above the tombstone of Francesco Nerl. —
Beyond the second altar, Monument to Dante (interred at Revenue . ate),
with the inscri tiou ‘Onorate l‘altissimo poetal‘, by Ste/one Ricci (1&9). —
Tomb-of Alder (d. 1803), by Canaan (erected at the expense of the Countess
of Albany). — ‘Marble Pulpit, by the pillar to the left, by Benedetto dd
Havana (ca. 1175), described as ‘the most beautiful pulpit in ltnly‘. The
ﬁve reliefs represent the Conﬁrmation of the Franciscan Order, the Burn-
ing of the books, the ‘Stigmata‘, the Death of St. Francis, and Execution
of brothers of the Order; below are statuettes of Faith, Hope, Charity.
Fortitude, and Justice. — Machiavelli (d. 1527), by Innocence Spineless.
erected in 1787, with inscription, ‘Tanto nomini nullum par elogium‘. —-
Lsnzi (d. 1810), the writer on art. -— Adjacent are a fresco by Dom. Vent-
ziano, representing John the Baptist and st. Francis. and an ‘Annunniatiea
a sandstone relief by Donatello (ca. 11125-30); above four charming Patti
—— monument of the statesman Leonardo Bruni ((1. 11M), summed Aretinc
from his birthplace, by Ben. Rosseluno. one of the first of the large
Renaissance tombs, afterwards so frequently imitated. The ﬁgure of the
deceased upon the bier supported by eagles, is especially ﬁne. — In the
ﬂoor is a simple memorial slab marking the tomb of Gioacchino Rossini
(Hm-18$), the composer, whose remains were brought from Paris. The
adjacent monument to him, by Cassioli was unveiled in June, 190s.

Rron'r Tween. At the corner: hfonument of Principe Neri Corsiai
(d. 1859), by 0. Fantacohtolu. —— The Cnunn or run Cns‘rnuam or on
Ssnro Sscnannnro (let on the right) is adorned with frescoes (freely re-
stored), on the right from the lives of St. Nicholas and John the Baptist,
on the left from those of 88. John and Anthony by A lo Gaddr'; on the
left, the ‘Monument of the Countess of Albany (d. 821), widow of the
young Pretender, by Luigi diorama! the two angels and the bas-relid‘
(Faith, Hope, and Charity) by Emilee donut-cut. — Farther on, Car-rune
Bsnoncsur, now Himi. To the right of the entrance is a Gothic nor

rument of 1327. The chapel is decorated (left side) with frescoes from
life of the Virgin, the princi :1 work of Todd” Gadde (183248). Over
alter a Pieta in marble by and‘nslls‘ (‘forms without signiﬁcance and

oorest composition’ according to Burckhardt). 0n the right is the
gonna dellegcintbla, a fresco by Bastiano Human“.

The door of the corridor leading to the sscristy is next reached.
Sscnrsrr (entrance by the ﬁrst door to the left) contains ‘Cabinets
doors with ﬁne intarsin work bfy am. at Michele (1410-60). On the w
to the left isIa terracotta bust o Christ praying, by Andrea delta
On the wall to the right are frescoes of scenes from the Passion, by
dl‘ Pietro Get-ins".- large missals with ancient miniatures. — The Car
Exnuccrm (separated from the sacrist by a beautiful railing) is adorn
with frescoes (scenes from the life 0 Mary Magdalen and the Virgin)
GWVBMI do Hilario (1386). -— At the end of the corridor is the 0
Manor, erected. about 1434 by lichelono for Cosimo the Elder (unlock
by the 8869““; 25-80 c.). By the right wall are a marble ciborlun.
1mm do Fresole, and a relief of the Madonna, of the School 0! M

 
  
  
   
    
 
   
  

