494 Route 58. FLORENCE. e. Acadany.

youthful artist in 1501-1593 from a gigantic block of marble,
which had been abandoned as spoiled. The statue formerly stood
in front of the Palazzo Vecchio (p. 446).

‘No plastic work of Michael Angelo earned such a harvest of laudation
among his contemporaries as the ‘David‘. Vasari sings the praises of the
miracle-worker, who raised the dead, spoiled block to new life, and
assures us that Michael Angela‘s David is vastly superior to all ancient and
modern statues whatever. The boldness and assured touch of the great
sculptor certainly awake our admiring astonishment. Not only the sub-
ject was prescribed to him, but also its size and proportions, added to
which he was conﬁned to the narrowest limits for the development of the
attitude and motion. Yet this constraint is not perceptible, and the history
of the statue could by no means he divined from its appearance. Out.
wardly the demeanour of the young hero is composed and quiet; but
each limb is animated by a common impulse from within and the whole
,body is braced up for one action. The raised left arm holds the sling in
readiness, the right hand hanging at his side holds the handle of the
sling; next instant he will make the attack‘. —— Springer.

This part of the room contains also a collection of casts of the
great master's works, and photographs of his drawings (right transept)
and of.the Sistine frescoes (left transept). — The door on the leit
leads to —

III. Room or Psnuomo. To the left of the entrance: Pietro.
Perugino, ‘57. Assumption of the Virgin, with SS. Michael, Gio-
vanni Gualberto, Dominic, and Bernard, brought from Vallombross
(1500); ‘56. Pieth (early work); *241, 242. Portraits of two monks
of Vallombrosa. 55. PM Filippo Lippi, Madonna with {our saints;
63. Perugino, Christ on the Mt. of Olives; opposite, ‘66. Dom.
Ghirlandajo, Madonna with angels and four saints, with predella

No. 67); 66. Luca Signorclli, Cruciﬁxion and Mary Magdalen
striking in its expression of absolute despair); '62. Pm Filippo
Lippi, Coronation of the Virgin, one of the master’s best works;
the monk below to the right, with the inscription ‘is perfecit opus',
is a portrait of the painter himself. 63. Albertinelli, Trinity (1600).
-— The Perugino Room is adjoined on the right and left by the —

Bomcnur Rooms (IV, V). -— IV. Room. To the right oi
the entrance, 70. Masaccio, St. Anna with the Virgin and Child; '71.
Andrea Verrocchio, Baptism of Christ (much injured), said to have
been ﬁnished by Leonardo do Vinci; 72. Franc. Pesellino, Predella
with the Nativity, the Beheading of SS. Cosmas and Damiauus, and
Miracles of St. Anthony; 73. Sandra Botticelli, Coronation of the
Virgin, with predella (No. 74); 76. Andrea del Sarto, Four Saints,
with predella (No. 77) representing scenes from their lives, 76.
Christ (fresco); 78. Perugino, Cruciﬁxion; 79. Pro Filippo Lippi,
Adoration of the Holy Child. "80. Sandro Botticelli, Allegoricsl
representation of Spring: on the left, Mercury and the Graces,
Venus and Cupid with the bow in the middle, and on the right
the Goddess of Spring and Flora (Chloris), accompanied by Zephyr,
the spring-wind. 82. Fra Hlippo‘ldp'pi, Adoration oi the Child.
— V. Room. To the right of the entrance: 98. Descent from the
Cross, the design and upper half by F‘ilippino Lippi, the lower half

