to Trieste. AQUILEIA. 43. Route. 329

At the rail. station of Villa Vicentina (see p. 328). stage—coaches
and carriages (fare with one horse 1 K. 60 Ii.) are waiting to convey
travellers to —

Aquileia. (Aquila Neva, well spoken of; Fortune,- Café Pasta),
a village of 2300 inhab., which lies 3 M. to the S. It is now 6 M.
from the sea, but is connected with the lagoons by canals. In the

vicinity are many fever-breeding rice-ﬁelds (p. 64).

The town of Aquileia, founded by the Romans in B. C. 181 as a bul-
wark against the Celts and lstrians, was already a commercial and trad-
ing place of great importance in the reign of Augustus; its chief products
were amber and glue ware. As a naval station and strong frontier-fortress,
it soon became the chief point d‘appm‘ of the llomans in their campaigns
against Illyrla and the lands of the Danube. In 238 A.D. the town was
besieged in vain by Emp. Maximinus Thrax, and in 452 it was destroyed
by Attila, after an obstinate resistance. Though soon rebuilt, it never
thanks to the silting up of the lagoons and the rivalry of Grade, regained
its former rosperity.

Accor us to tradition, Aquileia was converted to Christianity in the
ﬁrst century of our era by St. Mark and St. Hermagoras, the tutelar and
ﬁrst bishop of the town. It soon become a. metropolis of the new faith,
and its bishops assumed the atriarchal title in 567(7). The archbishopric
was removed to Udine in 1'7 2.

0f the Roman Aquileia all that has been discovered is the re-
mains of one street and the N.W. angle of the town-walls. The
sculptures and small works of art found in the excavations are pre-
served in the Anouacomoroar. Museum, founded in 1882, which
is open daily, 9—12 and 2-4 (in summer, 3-6; adm. 40 IL; plan of
the city and excavations 1 K.). Director, Prof. H. Maionica.

The charming Museum Garden, with its ancient sculptures eﬂ'ectively
interspersed with its cedars, cypressea, and palms, recalls the Villa Albani
at Rome. — The Groundka contains the collection ot‘sculptures. Room I.
Early-Christian monuments. 3.11. Fine statues of Roman emperors and
military monuments. R. Ill. Civic monuments. R. IV. Figures of the
Gods. ——— 0n the Upper Floor are the smaller antiquities. Room V. Ancient
glass, some very rare. R. VI. Objects in metal. R. VII. Objects of terra-
col-.3. R. VIII. Gems, jewels, coins, and works in amber.

_ The chief mediwval monument is the ‘Ca’mnnnan, a ﬂat-roofed
basilica with aisles and transept, erected by Patriarch Poppo in 1031
on the site of an early-Christian church. DestrOyed by an earth-
quake in 1348, it was rebuilt by Patriarch Marquard about 1379 in
the Gothic style. The Renaissance additions date from the Venetian
p eriod (ca. 1500).

In'rsaron. In the left aisle is asmall circular chapel, in marble (1031). —
The e oir contains Renaissance stalls and an altar-piece by Fellow-{no da
San Daniele, in a ﬁne old frame, with the tutelars of Rome (SS. Peter and
Paul) Aqufleia (SS. Hermagoras and Fortunatns), and Venice (88. Mark
and 'fheodore). The freseoes in the apse, probably dating from the days
of Poppa and Marquard represent the Consecration of the church in the
presence of Emp. Conrad 11. (above) and the Sull‘erings of St. Hermagorae
(below). -— The walls a! the crypt, which is a relic of the original early
Dhristian church, are painted with old frescoes of various dates. Behind
5 screen is an old reliquary. — The right transept contains remains of
the choir-screensaof the earlier building and a column with a capital in
the Ravenna style. Adjacent is the tomb of the patriarchs of the Milan
family of Della Torre (p. 111; 1273-1365).

