124: Route 19. MILAN. a. Northern Quarters:

From Room I, in which admission-tickets are obtained, weienter
(to the right) ——

Room II. (‘Affreschi’), along gallery, hung with frescoes of the
Lombard School. thc. Poppa, Martyrdom of St. Sebastian - Madonna
with SS. John the Baptist and John the Evangelist (i4 ). Bor-
gognom, Madonna with angels; Ten saints (from San Satire).
Bramantino, Madonna enthroned, with angels. Gaud. ﬁlm-ari, Ador-
ation of the Magi. Marco d’Oggiono, Adam and Eve; Marriage at
Cane; Death of the Virgin. Bernardino Luim‘, ‘Madonna with
SS. Anthony and Barbara. —— The Anteroom on the right contains
the archives and a large collection of photographs for purposes of
study. —- Straight on is -—

ROOM III: Venetian Schools of the 16-18th centuries. Paris
Burdens, Holy Family with St. Ambrose and the donor; Baptism of
Christ; Love-scene. G. B. Tiepolo, Two sketches. Bern. Bellotto,
Two landscapes (near Varese).— Franc. Morons, Madonna enthroned,
with two saints. —— Girol. Savoldo, ‘Madonna and four saints. Moreno,
Madonna with SS. Jerome, Anthony Abbas, and Francis (injured);
St. Francis; Assumption. -— Giov. Bait. Morom‘, Portrait of Nava-
giero, Podesti of Bergamo (1565); Assumption. — To the left is —-

Room 1V: Venetian School of the 16th century. Palma Vecchio,
Adoration of the Magi (probably ﬁnished by Cariani). Bonifazio 1.,
*Fiuding of Moses, in the style of Giorglone. Bonifazio 11., Christ
at Emmaus. Jac. Tintorcito, 'Fiuding of the body of St. Mark;
SS. Helena, M acarlus, Andrew, and Barbara; Pieta. Paolo l'eroncse,
Adoration of the Magi, with SS. Gregory and Jerome to the left and
SS. Ambrose and Augustine to the right; ‘SS. Anthony Abbas,
Cornelius, and Cyprian, amonk, and apage, the ﬁnest‘oonversazione’
piece (see p. 268) by this master; Christ at the house of Simon the
Pharisee. — To the left is — .

Roan V: Venetian Schools of the i5-16th centuries. Ant. Vivarini
and Giov. Alcmanno, Madonna and saints. — Gentile Bellini, *Preach-
ing of St. Mark at Alexandria.

In this piece we ‘plcrceive that the art of Gentile (brother of Giovanni)
on the eve of his den was better than it had ever been before. . . . The
composition is ﬁne, the ﬁgures have the individuality which he imparted,

and the whole scene is full of stern and solid power. —— ‘Hs’rtory of Pat’m-
ing in North Italy‘, by Crown and Cavalcaulle.

Vitt. Carpaccio, Presentation and Marriage of the Virgin (i 504;
p. 309); St. Stephen and the Scribes (1514). Lazzaro Bastiam‘,
Scenes from the life of St. Jerome (from an altar). Cima da Co—
negtiano, *Madonna enthroned, with SS. John the Baptist, Sebastian,
Rochus, and Mary Magdalen (an early work); ‘88. Peter Martyr,
Augustine, and Nicholas of Bari; St. Peter with John the Baptist
and St. Paul. —- Bart. Mantegna, “Madonna enthroned, with saints
and angels with musical instruments, one of the master’s best works
(1499). ——Stefano da Zeoio, Adoration of the Magi (i453). Liberate
da Verona, St. Sebastian. — To the right is —-

