 

xi! 4 SEASON.

with the exception of the ﬁve—franc pieces (scudi) of the Latin
Monetary League (Italy, France, Switzerland, and Greece), which
circulate at their face-value. Obsolete and worn coins are frequently
oﬂ’ered to strangers at shops and inns and even at railway ticket-
ofﬂces. — A piece of 5 c. is called a soldo or palanca, and as the
lower classes often keep their accounts in soldl, the traveller will
ﬁnd it useful to accustom himself to this mode of reckoning (dicci

soldi == 50 c., dodici soldi— — 60 c. ,etc.

Bits-r Moan nos. 111: Tom: Circular on: or Letters 0/ and“, ob-
tunable at the principal English or American banks, form the proper
medium for the transport of large sums, and realise the most favourable
exchnnge. English and German banknotes also realise their nominal
value. Sovereigns (28-27 fr) and the gold coins of the Latin Monetnry
League should be exchanged for notes at a money-changer‘s, as the
premium is lost in hotels and shops.

Excuses. Foreign money is most advantageously changed in the
larger towns, either at one of the English bankers or at a respectable
money—changers (‘cambiaoaluta‘ ). As 11 rule, those money-changers ere
the most satisfactory who publicly exhibit a list of the current rates of
exchange. The traveller should always be provided with an abundgm
supply of silver and small notes, as it is often difﬁcult to change notes of
large amount It is also advisable to carry 1- 2 fr. in copper and nickel in
a separate pocket or pouch.

Money Orders payable in ltaly, for sums not exceeding 101., are now
ranted by the English Post Ofﬁce at the following rates: up to 2l.,64 . ,-
l.,1s.-, 71., 1:. 841.;101., 20. These are payable in gold, an aymeut in

paper should be ﬁrmly declined unless the premium be a ded. The
identity of the receiver must be guaranteed by two well-known residents
or by an exhibition of the pass art The charge for money-orders granted
in Italy and payable in Englan is Me. per 11. sterling.

11. Period and Plan of Tour.

Season. As a general rule, the spring and autumn months are
the best season for a tour in North Italy, especially April and May
or September and October. Winter in Lombardy (apart from a few
favoured spots on the shores of the lakes) and Piedmont is generally
a much colder season than it is in England, but the Ligurian Riviera
(Genoa excepted) aﬁords pleasant and sheltered quarters. The
height of summer can hardly be recommended for travelling. The
scenery, indeed, is then in perfection, and the long days are hailed
with satisfaction by the enterprising traveller; but the ﬁerce rays of
an Italian sun seldom fail to impair the physical and mental energies.

Plan. The following short itinerary, beginning and ending at
Milan, though very far from exhausting the beauties of North Italy,
includes 'most of the places usually visited, with the time required
for a glimpse at each.

I): s
Milan (R.19), and excursion to Pavia (the Cartons p. 143) . . 22. 2 /,
To the Laao 111' Como, Lago 411 Lugano, and Logo .11ch (311.22

23,28) and on to Turin . .

Turin(R..7). 1
From Turin to Genoa (it. 11) . . 211/:
Genoa (3.18), and excursion to Psalt’ (Villa Pallavicini, p.
-Ne4-ri (p. 97), and Rapallo (p i00) or Scam Leeann (p. 101); B. 18 11/:

