and Environs. VENICE. 42. Route. 275

each other. They are said also to have been brought from Ptolemais
and are the subject of various legends (see Hart’s ‘Venice’).
The square campanﬂe (di San Marco), 822 ft. in height, which
. rose opposite St. Mark’s, to the S.W., collapsed on July 14th, 1902,
crushing the Loggetta at its foot. It was begun in 888, rebuilt in
1329, provided with a marble top in 1417, and in 1517 crowned
with the ﬁgure of an angel nearly 16 ft. high (new destroyed). rl'he
Loggetta, or vestibule, on the E. side of the Campanile, erected by
Saneooino in 1540, was once a rendezvous of the Nobili and after-
wards a waiting-room for the guards during the sessions of the great
Council. The bronze statues of Peace, Mercury, Apollo, and Pallas,
and the reliefs on the lower part of the walls, by Samom'no, as well
as the Bronze Gates, cast in 1750, have partially escaped destruction.
Both the Campanile and Loggetta will be rebuilt.
The clock Towar- (La Torre dew Orologio; P1. G, H, 6), on the
opposite side, at the E. and of the Old Procuratie, erected in 1496-99
' perhaps from designs by More Coducci (P), rises over a lofty gateway,
which forms the entrance to the Mercer-ta (p. 298). On the platform
are two giants in bronze (by Ant. Biszo ?), who strike the hours on a
. bell. The custodian of the clock explains the mechanism (1/2 in);
entrance under the archway to the left, indicated by a notice.

From the 8.13. corner of the Piazza of St. Mark to the Lagune
extends the ‘Piuxetts. (Pl. H, 5, 6), bounded on the W. by the
Library, and on the E. by the Palace of the Doges. 0n the side
next the Lagune are two Granite Columns, from Syria or Constan-
tinople, erected here in 1180; one of them bears the Winged Lion
of St. Mark (shattered at Paris in 1815, but put together again in
1893); the other, St. Theodore on a crocodile, patron of the ancient
republic, placed here in 1329. This used to be the place of execu-
tion; it is now (at the Mole) the chief stand for gondolas (p. 260).
The Venetian phrase ‘ﬂ-a Marco e Todaro‘ corresponds to our ‘be-
tween hammer and anvil'.

The former ”Library (Libreria Vecchia), begun by Samovino
in 1536, is a magniﬁcent building of the 16th cent., and one of
the ﬁnest secular edifices in Italy. In plan it consists of a double
colonnade with arches and embedded columns. In the upper col-
onnade the arches rest upon a series of smaller ﬂuted columns of the
ionic order. The eﬂ'ect is so fine as' to justify certain liberties
Sansovino has taken, such as that of enlarging the metopes at
:he expense of the triglyphs and architrave. The caryatides at
be main portal are by Al. Vittoria. The interesting interior, new
united with the Procuratie Nuove to form the royal palace (p. 271),
:ontains a ceiling-painting representing Wisdom, by Titian (a late
work), and in the hall of the library are ceiling-paintings by P. Vero-
“3‘1 Schiavonc, and others, and wall—paintings by Tintoretto and
ilolinari. The N.E. end was seriously damaged by the fall of the
lampanile on July 14th, 1902.

18‘

