126 Route 19. MILAN. a. Northern Guam}

of St. Catharine; Madonna. Leonardo da Vinci (‘1), ‘Head of Christ,
a drawing (injured).

Room XV: School of Leonardo da Vinci. Two Madonnas upon
panel by Btm. Luim‘ and the following frescoes by the same: God
the Father (from the church of Santa Maria di Brera); Resurrection
of Christ, Four angels, etc. (from the Monastero delle Vetere); Sportive
maidens, Sacriﬁce to Pan, Birth 0! Adonis, etc., and ‘St. Catherine
placed in her sarcophagus by angels, with the inscription C. V.
S. Ch., Le. ‘Catharina Virgo Sponsa Christi’ (from the Casa della
Pelucca, p. 120); Scenes from the life of the Virgin, with angels;
the Madonna with St. John the Evangelist and Martha and the donor,
formerly in the Chapel of St. Joseph in the old church of Santa
Maria della Pace. — To the right is ~—

ROOM XVI, with works of various Lombard Schools. Borgognonc,
SS. J erome,Ambrose, and Catharine. withaPieta above; Assumption
and Coronation of the Virgin (1522). Bern. Lanim‘, Madonna with
three saints; Group with St. Anna (a free c0py after Leon. daVinci’s
work in the Louvre). Giov. Ant. Boltrafﬁo. ’Portion of a large altar—
piece, with the two kneeling donors. Bern. Zenale (i), Madonna
enthroned, with the four great church-fathers, SS. Jerome, Gregory,
Augustine, and Ambrose, and the donor's, Lodovico il More, his
wife Beatrice d’Este, and their two children. Works by Bramantino,
etc. —— Also, works by Lombard masters of the 17-18th cent.:
Procaccini, D. Crespi (Dead Franciscan), C. F. Nuvoloni (Family
of the painter), etc.

Room XVH: works of the later Bolognese School (16-18th cent).
Ann. Can-acci, Christ and the Samaritan Woman; Guido Rem‘, SS.
Paul and Peter; Domenichino, Madonna enthroned, with SS. John
the Evangelist and Petronius; Guen-ino, Expulsion of Hagar; Franc.
Albani, Dance of Cupids. — To the left is —

Room XVI: Schools of Modena, Reggio, and Parma. Fit. Mussola,
Portrait; Girol.Mazzola-Bedoli, Benedictine saint. Correggio,‘Ador-
ation of the Magi, an early work in the master's Ferrarese style;
Madonna, St. Lucy, and Mary Magdalen. _

RooM XIX: works of Bolognese and Ferrarese masters of the
15-16th centuries. Franc. Cossa, SS. John the Baptist and Peter;
Ercole de’ Roberli, ‘Madonna enthroned with St. Augustine, the
beatiﬂed Pietro degli Onesti, and two female saints (from Santa
Maria in Porto Fuori at Ravenna). Lor. Caste, Adoration of the
Magi (1499). G’aro/‘alo, Pieta (1527). Dana Dom, SS. Sebastian,
George, and John the Baptist.

Room XX: Schools of the Romagna, Forli, Faenza, Imola, and
Ravenna. Nice. Rondincui, St. John the Evangelist appearing to
Galla Placidia (p. 386); Madonna enthroned, with four saints. Marco
Palmemmo, Madonna enthroned, with four saints (1483). Cotignola,
Madonna enthroned, with two saints and angels (1499). AM. Alcotti,
Same subject. Luca. Longhi, Same subject (1538).

