Gandolas. vsmcn. 42. Route. 261

°auadri (see p. 2%). After sunset hundreds of chairs and small tables are
laced in front of these cafes for the use of customers. —— Cafe Oriental, Riva
egli Behiavoni, much frequented in the morning, somewhat cheaper. —
Cosnmoun (tea-room): Law, on the N. side of the Plane of St. Mark.

The Gondolas and Bucks take the place of cabs at Venice. Their
‘stands‘ are at the hotels and ferries (traghetti). The light Venetian Gon-
dolas, with a low black cabin ( else) and black leather seat, hold 4-6

rsons. The are ﬁrst heard 0 in a document of 109A and are painted

lack in con ormity with a law passed in the 15th century. The Barn
or Battello is a larger craft, carrying 8 persons. The heavy ndented piron
row (fen-o) resembling a halberd, is partly intended to counterbalance the
weight of the rower, and partly as ameasure of the height of the bridges,
which cannot be passed unless the ﬁrm the highest part of the craft,
clears them. The rower himself is hailed as ‘Poppe’, from the poppa on
which he stands. ‘Cavar (l felse‘ means ‘to remove the cabin or covering‘.
The shouts of the gondoliers on turning a corner are weird and melancholy:
a-bel means ‘look out‘, sia mu, ‘keep to the right”, Na premi, ‘keep to the
left‘, ua dd lunao, ‘keep straight on‘.

The Taxi", which must be shown on demand. applies to the adjoining

islands as well as to Venice itself. Gondola for 1-4, or a barca for
1-6 persons, with one rower (‘remo‘), for the first hour 1fr., by night ifr.
30 c., for each additional half-hour 50c. This rate covers the whole city,
including the Giudecca, San Giorgio Maggiore, and San Michele. For trips
to the Lido, San Lanai-o, Mureno, etc., the charge is 1/3 fr. more for every
hour or part of an hour. For a whole day (10 hrs.) the charge is (Mr.
For a larger number of passengers the charges are one~half higher. For
short distances a bargain should be made. For a second romr double the
ordinary fare is charged, but a bargain may be made. One, however,
sufﬁces for trips in the town (‘baata uno’). For public festivities bargain-
ing is necessary. Only gondolas with numbers should be engaged, and
the visitor should select one for himself, disregarding all proﬁ‘ers of
assistance. The owner of the selected boat will immediately present
himself, and the visitor should then indicate what he is willing to pay,
5.3. San“ 040mm” Paola mezzo “m (1/2 fr.). If the tariff price is rejected,
another boat should be selected; it the gondola is hired by the hour,
:he passenger shows his watch, saying ‘all‘ ora‘. In addition to the fare a
”null fee is always expected (for half-day 1/34 fr.). If any difﬁculty arises
t is best to apply to a policeman (Guardt‘a municipal». — The ‘Ramptm‘ or
Gaunt-P (hookers), who assist passengers to disembark, expect a gratuity
.r‘ 2-3 centimes. Care should be taken in embarking and disembarking,
specially when the tide is low, exposing the slimy lower steps.

Fzmls (Traghetls'). Across the Grand Canal (traghatto direuo for

-2, pets. 5, 3-4 pers. 10 e.; oblique crossing (traghetto Irma-sale) l and
5 a. From the Mole to the Dogana or to San Giorgio Maggiore for
-2 en. 15 6., 3-4. pers. 20 c.; to the Giudecca 20 c.; from the Bpirito
tan or the Fondnmenta delle Zattere to the Giudecca 15 e.; from the
[010 to the Glardini Pubhlici (evening included) 50c.; from the Giardini
'ubblici to the Lido 60 e.‘ from the Fondamenta Nuove to the Cimitero
r to Intano 30c. The tariﬁ‘ is binding only at the ﬁxed points shown
n the Plan; travellers sh0uld let it be distinctly understood when they
rish the ‘traghetto‘ only. The passenger usually deposits the fare on the
unwale on lending.

Steamers. Since 1883 the increasing traffic in the canals has been
artly met by the small steambonts ( Vaporetti, also called ﬁ'amways) of
3° Societa 61' Navigation Lacuna".

1. From the (Hardin! Pubblics‘ (Pi. L, 7) to Santa O’Hara (Pl. C, 4) by
.e Grand Canal (from Ma to Sept. from the Lido vii the Ginrdini Pub-
list! to Santa Chiara until .80 p.m.) every 10 min. (1st Nov. to 31st March
very 12 min.) from 8.4.5 nan. till dusk; fare 10 c. for any distance (from
19 . Lido to beyond San Marco 20 c.), early in the morning 5 c. Between
,9 Riva del Carbon and the Ramsay Station they run every IIs 111'- till

