III. Liguria.

 

16.Genoa.................... 66
a. The harbour and adjoining streets, 71. -— b. From the
harbour through the Via San Lorenzo to the Piazza Um-
berto Prime and the Piazza Deferrari, 7‘. — c. From
the Piazza Deferrarl to the main railway-station and the
lighthouse, 76. —- d. From the Piazza Deferrari to the
Via di Circonvallazione a Mare viit the Piazza Corvette,
Acquasola, and Oorso Andrea Podesth, 82. —— e. From
the Piazza Corvetto to the Piazza Manin; Via di Circon-
vallazione a Monte; Castellaccio; Campo Santa, 84

17. From Genoa to Ventimiglia. Riviera di Ponente . . 85
Pegli 86. — Arenzano and Savona, 87. — Alassio, 88. —

San emo, 89. — Ospedaletti. Bordighera, 93.

18. From Genoa to Pisa. Riviera di Lovante . . . . . 96
Nervi 97. —— Road from Recco to Rapallo. Monte di
Portoiino, 98. — Santa Margherita. From Santa Margherita
to Portoﬁno, 99. -— Rapallo. Road from Rapallo to Chiavari,
1C0. — Sestri Levante, 101. — Road from Sestri Levante
to Spezia, to Borgotaro, 102. — Sfezia, 103. —- From Avenza
to Can-era, 105. -- Viareggio, 07.

 

 

 

 

The Maritime and Mountain Alps and the contiguous Apenm'nes (the bound-
ary between which is some WM. to the W. of Genoa) slope gentlyuorth-
wards to the P0 in the form of an extensive rolling country, and descend
abruptly towards the sea to the S. The narrow Blvrana, or coast-district,
is sheltered from the N. wind by the mountains, and enjoys a ﬁne sunny
upect. While the mean temperature at Turin is 52" Fahr., it is no less
than 61° at Genoa; and again, while the temperature of January averages
31" at the former, and occasionailzlsy falls below zero, it averages 46" at the
latter, and is rarely lower than ‘. The climate of the Riviera is there—
fore milder than that of Rome. and ever since the middle of the 19th cent.
has attracted crowds of visitors, ﬂeeing from the northern winters.

The Riviera, divided by Genoa into an eastern (Riviera di Lsmnu; p. 96)
and a larger western half (Riviera di Ponents), which belongs to France from
Ventimiglia westwards, is one of the most picturesque regions of Italy. It
affords a delightful variety of landscapes bold and lofty promontories alter-
nating with wooded hills, and richly cu tivated plains near the coast. At
places the road passes precipitous and frowning cliffs, washed by the surf
of the Mediterranean, while the summits are crowned with the venerable
ruins of towers erected in bygone ages for protection against pirates. At
other places extensive plantations of olives, with their grotesque and gnarled
Items, bright green pine-forests, and luxuriant growths of ﬁgs, vines,
nitrous, oranges oleanders, myrtles, and aloes meet the view, and even
Palms are occasionally seen. Many of the towns are charmingly situated
in fertile spots or on picturesque hills; others, commanded by ancient
strongholds, are perched like nests among the rocks. Little churches and
chapels peering from the sombre foliage of cypresses, and gigantic grey
pinnacles of rock frowning upon the smiling plains, frequently enhance
the charms of the scenery, while the vast expanse of the Mediterranean,
With its ever-varying hues, forms one of the chief attractions. At one
fine the sea is bathed in a ﬂood of sunshine, at another its beautiful blue
“PM! arrests the eye; or while the shore immediately below the spectator
is lashed with wild breakers, the snowy crests of the waves are gradually
Uthened to view in the purple distance.

Banana. Italy 1. 12th Edit. 5 ~

