96 Route 17. vnn'mnems. .

94 M. Ventimiglia. — Hotels. Horn-lustsunsu'r or 133630”,
R. from 2, déj. 21/2, D. 31/2 fr., incl. wine; H61. Boxes: s-r Tlmuuos, at
the station, both unpretendiug. — Cafes-Restaurants. Riuorame Tomyhi,
Vis delln Stazione; Maison Darla, at the station; Caﬂ de Pan's, Via Prin-
cipe Amedeo. — llloxn’ Cnsuosns It the rail. station. — Goons Acsxrs,
Matem Gondrami —— Enscrmo Tusnwsr to Bardighera, see p. 9‘. —
Onxxnus to Dolceacqua (1 fr.) and to Keystone. -— ONE-30358 Osmium: to
Kenton: 5-6 fr. {bargaining necessary; stand at the rail. station).

Ventimiglia (45 ft.; Fr. Vintimille), the Roman Albintemelium,
the Italian frontier-town, with 11,468 inhab. and the seat of a bishop,
lies picturesquely on a hill beyond the Roja. In the Municipio is
a small collection of Roman antiquities from Nervia (see p. 95).
The Cathedral and the little church of San Michele are interesting;
the columns of the vaulted crypt of the latter bear Roman inscrip-
tions. Fine view of the Roja valley through the Ports Romano.

A road ascends from Ventimiglis in about 1 hr. to the ruined Costello
d‘Appt‘o (line views). Outside the Ports di Nizzs we turn to the right and
take the branch to the left at the ﬁrst fork. — Another road (0mm. see
above) leads through the Val Nerm'a to (13/4 hr.) Dolceaqua, with the
mined ancestral castle of the Dorias of Genoa, and thence vii Irolabona
to (2 hrs.) Pigna.

From Ventimiglio to ”mom. Monte Carlo, and Mac, see Basdd’cr'l
Southern France. — From Ventimiglis to Tenda and Vieuola (for Cnneo
and Turin), see R. 9.

18. From Genoa to Pisa. Riviera di Lévunte.

1021/: M. RAILWAY in 38/4-75/. hrs. (fares 19 fr. 15, 13 fr. M, 8 tr. 60o;
express 21 fr. 10, 14. fr. SO 6.). The trains start from the Stations Ham
Principe (local trains to Chiaoari also from the Stations Piasla Brigade:
comp. the time-tables). Tickets to Nerm’, Rapallo, etc. by the fast express
are issued only as extensions of tickets to Genoa, on application being
made to the ‘Controllore‘ or to the station-master immediately on the
traveller‘s arrival in Genoa. Local passengers from Genoa. with tickets
for stations short of Chiavari (San Pier d‘Arena in the opposite direction)
are not allowed to travel by the express trains. — For the sake of the
view, seats should be taken on the left side of the carriage at the Mariam
Hana Principe, and on the right side at the Slazs'one Piazza Brimwla.
Between Nervi and Spezia the view is much interrupted by the numerous
tunnels. It is dangerous to lean out of the carriage-window. — Electric
Tramway to Nervi, see p. 68.

Genoa, p. 66. The train backs out of the Stations Piazza Prin-
cipe, and then starts in the opposite (FL) direction, passing through
a long tunnel under the higher parts of the town (4-5 min.).

2 M. Staziom Piazza Brignolc. To the left we obtain a view
of the fortress-crowned heights around Genoa (comp. p. 70).

On the Riviera di Levante, or coast to the E. of Genoa, the
vegetation is less luxuriant than on the Riviera di Ponente (p. 85),
but the scenery is almost more striking. The line is carried through
numerous cuttings and more than eighty tunnels, some very long.
The villages present a town-like appearance, with their narrow
streets and lofty houses, closely built on the narrow sec-board or in
conﬁned valleys, and mostly painted externally as at Genoa.

The train crosses the insigniﬁcant Bisagno, and passes under

