a. San Marco and Environs. VENICE. 42. Route. 271

a. Piazza of St. Mark and Environs. Riva degli Sohiavoni.

The "Pin.“ 0! 5t. Hark (Pl. G, 5), usually called ‘La. Piaaza’,
a square paved with trachyte and marble, 192 yds. in length, on
the W. side 61, and on the E. 90 yds. in breadth, admits the most
striking evidence of the ancient glory of Venice. On three sides it
is enclosed by imposing buildings, which appear to form one vast
marble palace, blackened by age and the elements; on the E. it is
bounded by the Church of St. Mark and the Piazzetta (p. 275). The
palaces on the N. and S. side were once the residence of the nine
‘procurators’, the highest ofﬁcials of the Republic after the Doge,
whence their name Proouratte. The Procuratie Vecchie, or N. wing,
were erected in 1480-1517 by Pietro Lombardo, Bartolomeo Buon
the Younger, and Guglielmo Bergamasco. The Procuralie Nuwe, or
S. wing, begun by Scamozu‘ in 1584, together with the adjoining
building (formerly the Library, 1). 275), now form the Palazso Beale,
and contain handsome modern apartments with ancient and modern
pictures (adm., see p. 285; entrance in the Piazzetta). The ediﬁce
on the W. side, the Atrio,'or Nuooa Fabbrica, was erected in 1810,
partly on the site of the church of San Geminiano. The groundﬂoors
of these structures consist of arcades, and contain the cafes and shops
mentioned at pp. 260, 263.

‘The Place of St. Mark is the heart of Venice, and from this
beats new life in every direction, through an intricate system of
streets and canals, that bring it back again to the same oentre’
(Howells). On summer-evenings all who desire to enjoy fresh air
congregate here. The scene is liveliest when the military band plays
(almost daily, 830-1030), and possesses a charm all its own. In
winter the band plays on the same days, 2.30-4.30 p.m., and the
Piazza is then a fashionable promenade. By moonlight the piazza
is strikingly impressive.

A large ﬂock of Prenoxs (Colombo enlivens the Piazza. In accordance
with an old custom pigeons were sent out from the veotibule of San Marco
3n Palm Sunday, and these nested in the nooks and crannies of the sur-
rounding buildings. Down to the close of the Republic they were fed at
the public expense, but they _aro now dependent upon private charig.
towards evening they perch in great numbers under the arches of t.
Kalk’s. Grain and peas may be bought for the pigeons from various
oungers in the Piazza; and those whose ambition leans in that direction
nay have themselves photographed with the pigeons clustering round them.

, The three richly decorated bronze pedestals of the ﬂag-staffs in
'ront of the church were executed by Alan. Leopardt in 1505. The
“union of the Republic which once waved here are now succeeded
un Sundays and holidays by those of the Kingdom of Italy.

The nucleus of I"San Marco (Pl. H, 5), the Church of St. Mark,
he tutelary saint of Venice, whose bones are said to have been
prought by Venetians from Alexandria in 829, is s, Romanesque
prick basilica, begun in 830 and rebuilt after a ﬁre in 976. In the
016619 of the 11th cent. a reconstruction was begun in a Byzantine

