218 Route 36. CHIARANO.

Spanish Succession. Almost entirely shut in on the N., E., and
W. by lofty mountains, Arco is frequented as a. winter-resort by
consumptive and nervous patients. The climate resembles that
of Gardens (p. 212), but Arco has fewer showers and is somewhat
less moist (relative moisture 72 per cent) and cooler in winter. The
Ora (p. 211) is sometimes troublesome, especially at the beginning
of spring. The vegetation is thoroughly southern in character
(p. 211); numerous olive-groves.

The most frequented resorts of the visitors are in the neigh-
bourhood of the two largest hotels and the new Sulone Mum'cipale,
and the Ourplats, a. little to the E. To the N. of the last are the
Collegiate Church (1603-18) and the old town-palace of the Counts
of Arco, with faded frescoes.

The magnolia avenue between the two chief hotels is continued
to the W., by a road passing numerous villas, to Chiarano (see below).
A side— road at the W. end of the avenue leads to the right to the
garden and villa of the Archduke Frederick (no adm.).

Excunsrons. To the N. by sunny paths to the 0am Bianca, Yedvla
Ham, and the live-oaks (in all lli-i hr.; guide-posts). The Castle of Area
is rewhed from the Curplatz in less than 1/: hr. (key at one of the chemists;
fee 80-80 It). — The romantic Via dd Prabr', diver ing to the left on this
side of the bridge, between the cutie-rock and the Baron, traverses the
imposing remains of a huge landslip to (1 hr.) Geniga (inn), whence we
may return by a stony path through the Laghel Valley, pusing the small
Lake Lang, which is dry in summer (1% hr.).

Pleasant walk to the W. hamlet of (3/‘ M.) Chin-mo, with the Villa
Angerer (rich Mediterranean ﬂore in the garden) and the Villa Garcia, pre-
sented to the German emperor in 1901 by Herr Hildebrand, and now
a convalescent home for ofﬁcers. Fine views. Thence we proceed either
by the road to the left, vii the convent of Santa Maria delta Grazie to
(3 M.) Varone (p. 216), or to the right via Wyn: to (3/4 hi.) Vars‘gnano and
thence ascend to the right by a rough path, affording beautiful views. to
(ll/4 hr.) Tenno (p. 216). From Tenno we descend by Odom to (40 min.)
Val'one, and return across the plain to (3 M.) Arco.

