518 Route 53. FLORENCE. h. Left Bank

Diogenes throwing away his drinking-cup (‘la foresta del' ﬁbre/i"),- I75.
Domenichino, Landscape, with Diana. and Actnon; L76. Andrea del Sarto,
Madonna.

On the groundﬂoor of the palace is the Save}; Grumman (Mano
degli Argenti; to the left in the ﬁrst court; adm., see p. 437), con-
taining the royal plate and interesting specimens of ancient and
modem goldsmiths’ work. In the cases to the left are several orna-
ments in the style of Bone. Cellini. By the window, bronze cruci—
ﬁx by Giovanni da Bologna. 0n the wall to the right, Cruciﬁxion
by Tacca.

The Royal Apartments are sumptuously furnished, but only
those on the ﬁrst ﬂoor are shown to the public. Adm., see p. 437:
a staircase, built in 1852 by Poccianti, ascends to the right from

the ﬁrst court.

We ﬁrst enter the Ball Room, which is richly decorated in the classi-
cist style (the stucco ornaments by Giocondo Albertans). —- The Sala di
Bone, or dining-room, is frescoed by Bern. Poccetti. — Next come the
King‘s private apartments in the classicist style (Medanna by A. dd m,
in the bedroom) and the Queen‘s apartments, luxuriously furnished (Par-
lrait of Francesco de’ Medici, by P. Vet-onus, in the ante-room). — We
now return and enter the State Apartments (Appsrlamento Uﬂiciale).
Room I. Botticelli, “So-called Pallas, painted for Lorenzo the Magniﬁcent-
the genius of the House of Medici grasping a Centaur by the hair, per-
haps an allegorical representation of some successfully frustrated con-
spiracy. Botticelli, Madonna in the bower of roses (studio-piece); Copy of
Leonardo da Vind‘a Madonna in the grotto. In the Throne Room are some
magniﬁcent Japanese vases. The ante-room (Anticarnera) contains paint-
ings by J. M. Nattier and ﬁne tapestry. In the hanqueting~room and the
gallery are a few ancient statues; pretty view of the palace-court and the
amphitheatre (see below).

The *Boboli Garden (Beale Giardino di Boboli, Pl. A-D, 7;
adm., see p. 437), at the back of the palace, extends in terraces up
the bill. It was laid out by Tribolo in 1550, under Cosimo I., and
extended by Bem. Buontalenti and Giov. da Bologna, and commands
a succession of charming views of Florence with its palaces and
churches, among which the Pal. Vecchio, the dome and campanile
of the cathedral, and the tower of the Badia are conspicuous. The
long walks, bordered with evergreens, and the terraces, adorned with
vases and statues, attract crowds of pleasure-seekers on Sundays.

0n passing the entrance (Pl. D, 6- comp. also p. 512), we first observe.
in a straight direction, a Gno‘n‘o with four unfinished statues of ca lives.
modelled by Michael Angelo for the monument of Pope Julius II. n the
background is a statue of Venus by Giovanni do Bologna. — The Man: Pm
sweeps upwards to the so-called Amphitheatre (Pl. 0, 7), an open space at
the back of the palace, enclosed by oak-hedges and rows of seats, which
was formerly employed for festivities of the court. On the right, a hand-
some fountain, in the centre, an Egyptian obelisk and an ancient basin
of grey granite. Steep paths ascend to the B. from the amphitheatre to
the BASIN or Narrow): (P1. 0 D, 7), adorned with a statue of the god by
Stoldo Lornm' (1565); then, higher up, the statue of Aaaoxoulza, by on
vanm da Bologna and Pietro Tacca, erected in 1636 to commemorate the
fact that during the general distress in Italy occasioned by war, Tusm.‘
$01191 pnder Ferdinand lI., revelled in plenty. At the very top ate-keeper
20 0.) IS the small Graaomo DEL (humans, laid out by Card. eopold on
one of Michael A“gelo‘s bastinns (p. 5‘21) beside the Forteua di Belvcden

