508 Route 58. FLORENCE. . h. Left Bank

Farther on is a bronze Statue of Garibaldi (Pl. 3,3), by Zocchi
(1890). -— The Lungarno Amerigo Vespucci ends at the Piazza degli
Zuaoi (Pl. A, B, 1, 2), at the entrance to the Cassius (p. 524).

h. Districts of the City on the left bank of the Arno. Pitti Palace.

About one-fourth part ofthe city lies on the left bank.

We cross the Ponte Santa 1mm (Pl. D, 5; pp. 445, 506).
adorned with allegorical statues of the seasons, and proceed in a
straight direction to the Vrs Msoero (P1. 0, 5, 6), No. 26 in which
is the house of Bianca Cappcllo (d. 1587), wife of Grand-Duke
Francis L, and well known for the romantic vicissitudes of her history,
erected in 1566.

The Pal. Rinucctnt (Pl. 0, 5), in the Via Santo Spirito, the ﬁrst side—
strect to the right, contains a collection of Roman inscriptions. in the
Borgo San Jscopo, the ﬁrst side-street to the left, is the small church of
San Jacopo Soprmo (Pl. D, 5), with a Tuscan-Romanesque vestibule oi
the 11th cent., brought hither from the convent-church of San Donate is
Scopeto.

We next follow the second side—street (Via Michelozzi) to the
right and reach the quiet PIAZZA Ssxro Srmrro (Pl. 0, 5, 6), which
is laid out in gardens. Immediately to the right is the convent-
church of the —

4 ‘Banto Spirito (Pl. 0, 5), a basilica in the form of a Latin cross.
covered with a dome, and containing 38 chapels. It was begun about
1436, on the site of a. Romanesque building from a design by
Filippo Brunclleschi, and was completed in 11182, with numerous
modiﬁcations, by Ant. Manelti, Salvi d’Andrea, and others. The
noble proportions of the interior, which is borne by 31 Corinthian
columns and 4 pillars, render it one of the most attractive structures
in Florence. The nave has a ﬂat roof, while the aisles are vaulted.
‘This church, taking it all in all, is internally as successful an
adaptation of the hasilicsn type as its age presents’ (Fergusson). -—
The campanile, erected by Baccio d‘Agnolo was restored in 1896.

Over the entrance is a good stained-glass window of the 15th century. -
Bron-r ArsLn. 2nd altar: Pieta, a group in marble, after Michael Angelo
(original in St. Peter‘s at Rome), by Nannt dt‘ Bacct'o Bigt‘o (1M9). 7th altar:
Archangel Raphael with Tobias, group by Gino. Baralta. — Brena-Tulsa".
3rd altar: Madonna by Donatello (covered). 5th altar: ‘Madonns. with

N saints, by Filipptno Lippi. 6th altar: Madonna appearing to St. Bernard,
an early copy from Pei-wine (original at Munich). 7th altar (right well):
Marble sarcophagus of Neri Cspponi (d. 1457), with his portrait in relief
from the studio of the brothers Rosrellino. — The Client has a screen 01
marble and bronze; high-altar with canopy and statues by Glen. Budd,
about 1000. At the back of the choir, 5th altar The adulterous before
Christ by Alessandro Allori. — LEFT Tnsrtssrr: 1st altar, Madonna with
saints, by Cosimo Rossells‘; 4th altar (del Sacramento). sculptured in marble
by Andrea Samam‘no (youthful work); 7th altar, Madonna with four saints,
WP? by Raﬂ'adIo Cay-Ii (1500). — In the Lan- AIsLn is the entrance to
the 'Sscnrsrr, a graceful octagonal structure, with four corner-niches.
erected by Giul. da Sonyallo and Cronaca in 1489-92 behind a ﬁnely-
vaulted portico the ceiling of which is by A. Sansom'no. — Farther on in
the church, beside the 2nd altar from the entrance, statue of Christ a copy
from Michael Angelo (in Santa Maria soprs Minerva at Rome), by T. ndt'ﬂl-

