RAILWAYS . xvii

tr‘averse'r more than one-fourth of the total distance twice. These
tickets are valid for 15 days (under 800 kil.), 30 days (under
2000 kil.), or 46 days. They are issued at the principal Italian
stations six hours after application is made. The desired route, the
class, and the station at which the journey is to begin should be
carefully specified. The period for which the ticket is valid may
be extended (prerogare) on payment of a small percentage; the same
holds good for the 30 days return—tickets to the Riviera. — Tickets
of both the above-mentioned kinds and full information may be
procured in London (at the principal stations of the southern rail-
ways; from Messrs. Cook & Son, Ludgate Circus, Messrs. Gaze tic
Sons, 53 Queen Victoria Street, etc.), in Paris, and at the chief
towns of Germany and Switzerland. If the tickets are bought in
Italy, with paper money, the traveller has a small advantage owing
to the premium on gold. Those with whom economy is an object
may also save a good deal by taking return-tickets to the Swiss
frontier, travelling third class in Switzerland, and then taking
circular-tour tickets in Italy.

These tickets have to be signed by the traveller and require to be
stamped at each fresh starting-point with the name of the next station
at which the traveller intends to halt. This may be done either at the
city-ofﬁce or at the railway-station (usually at a special ticket-ofﬁce,
lahelled ‘viaggi cireolnri'), I! the traveller makes up his mind en route
to alight before or beyond the station for which his ticket has been stamped,
he must at once apply to the capo-mama of the station where he leaves
the train for. recognition of the break in the journey (‘accarlnrc (I cum-
br’carauo dr‘ daltwiou‘). When the traveller quits the prescribed route,
intending to rejoin it at a point farther on, he has also to procure an
‘muan‘m‘ at the station where he alights, enabling him to resume his
circular tour after his digression (‘vau par Nprmdsrc auu “adorn . . . a
My“ inter-rem a .2. .‘). If this ceremony be neglected the holder of the
ticket is required to pay full fare for the omitted portion of the route for
which the ticket is issued.

Gamer. Tickets. The so-called Biglictti di Abbonamento Speciale
or General Season Tickets, resembling the Swiss ‘General-Abonne-
ments’, entitle the holder to travel at will during a given time over
the railways in any one of seven districts into which Italy is divided
for the purpose (two in N. Italy, two in Central Italy, two in 8.
Italy, and Sicily). The two districts in N. Italy are separated by the
line Chissso-Milan-Bologna-Rimini, which is considered to belong
to the E. section (Chiasso-Milan included in both). The steamboat,
lines ofLsgo Maggiore belong to the W. section (Reta Mediterrama),
those of the Lago di Garda to the E. section (Reta Adriatica), and
thoseof the Lake of Como to both. A fortnightly ticket of this kind
costs 95, 65, or 40 tr.(1st, 2nd, and 3rd class), a monthly ticket
160, 110, 65 fr., a quarterly ticket 410, 280, 165 fr. The price of
the fortnightly ticket is_near1y as high as‘ that of the ‘combiued
ticket’, valid for a month, of any of the most extensive circular tours
in the same district; but ion the other hand the holder is spared the
necessity of having it stamped at each break of the journey. The

Bubnun. Italy I. 12th Edit. ' ' b .

r

