xxxiv ITALIAN ART.

Roman art, and a sudden and spontaneous invention of a new style.
But the eye and the hand adhere to custom more tenaciously than
the mind. While new ideas, and altered views of the character of
the Deity and the destination of man were entertained, the wonted
forms were still necessarily employed in the expression of these
thoughts. Moreover the heathen sovereigns had by no means been
unremittineg hostile to Christianity the most hitter persecutions
did not take place till the 3rd century , and the new doctrines were
permitted to expand, take deeper root, and organise themselves in
the midst of heathen society. The consequence was, that the trans-
ition from heathen to Christian ideas of art was a gradual one, and
that in point of form early Christian art continued to follow up the
lessons of the ancient. The best proof of this is afforded by the
paintings in the Roman Caucasus, the burial-places of the early
Christian community. In these the artistic principles of pagan
antiquity are adhered to, alike in decorative forms, design, choice
of colour, grouping of ﬁgures, and treatment of subject. Even the
SaacorI-raous SCULPTUBES of the 4th and 5th centuries differ in
purport only, and not in technical treatment, from the type exhibited
in the tomb-reliefs of heathen Rome. Five centuries elapsed be-
fore a new artistic style sprang up in painting and in the greatly
neglected plastic arts. Meanwhile architecture had developed itself
commensurately with the requirements of Christian worship, and,
in connection with the new modes of building, painting acquired a
different character.

The term BAsrLIca STYLE is 'often employed to designate early

Cuuaca Christian architecture down to the 10th century. The Roman
Aacarrsc- forensic basilicas, which are proved to have existed in the

V

“7“- i‘ora of most of the towns of the Roman empire, served as
courts of judicature and public assembly-halls. The belief that
these were afterwards ﬁtted up for the purposes of Christian worship
is now exploded, but in their main features they served as models
for the construction of Christian churches. After the 4th cent.
the following became the established type of the Christian has-
ilica. In front is a quadrangular fore-court (atrium), of the same
width as the basilica itself, surrounded with an open oolonnade
and provided with a fountain (cantharus) for the ablutions of the
devout. This forms the approach to the interior of the church,
which usually consisted of a nave and two aisles, the latter lower
than the former, and separated from it by two rows of columns, the
whole terminating in a semicircle (apsis). In front of the apes there
was sometimes a transverse space (transept); the altar, surmounted
by a columnar structure, occupied a detached position in the apse;
the space in front of it, 'bOunded by cancelli or railings, was
destined for the choir of ofﬁciating priests, and contained the two
pulpits (ambones) where the gospel and epistles, were read. Un-
like the ancient temples, the early-Christian basilicas exhibit a

