POST OFFICE. TELEGRAPH. xxv

evening-resort of the Italians, who seldom observe strict silence
during the performance of the orchestra. The intervals between the
sets are usually very long. Cloak-rooms are found only in.a few of
the best theatres. Gentlemen usually wear their hats until the
Curtain rises.

Shops. Fixed prices have of late become much more general
in N. Italy, but a reduction may usually be obtained on purchases
of large amount. The traveller’s demeanour should be polite but
decided. Purchases should never be made in presence of a valet-
de-place or through the agency of a hotel-employee. These indivi-
duals, by tacit agreement, receive a commission on the purchase-
money, which of course comes out of the purchaser’s pocket. 0n the

other hand, the presence of an Italian friend is a distinct adVautsge.
An active trade is driven in spurious antiquities, especially in Venice
and Florence. Ancient works of art should never be purchased without
a written guarantee of~their authenticity. The ‘lucky discoveries‘ oﬂ'ered
by the smaller dealers are usually nothing but traps for the unwary.
Some caution is necessary in buying articles to be sent home. The
full amount should never be paid until the package has arrived and its
mutants have been examined. If the shopkeeper does not agree to a written
agreement as to the method of packing, the means of tran art, and corn- .
pensation for breakages, it is advisable to cut the trsnaac on short. The
transmission of large objects should be entrusted to a goods-agent.

Xll. Post Office. Telegraph.

In the larger towns the Post Ofﬁce is open daily from 8a.m. to
80r 9.30 p.m. (also on Sundays and holidays); in smaller places
it is generally closed in the middle of the day for two or three hours.

Letters (whether ‘postc restante’, Italian ‘ferma in posla', or to
the traveller's hotel) should be addressed very distinctly, and the
name of the place should be in Italian. The surname (cognome ,-
Christian name, name) should be underlined. When asking for let-
ters the traveller, should show his visiting-card instead of pronounc-
ing his name. Postage-stamps (francobolli) are sold at the post-
ot'ilces and tobacco-shops. The mail-boxes (buca or cassette) are lab-
elled ‘pcr le lettere', for letters, and ‘pcr le ltampe’, for printed matter.

Lmans of 15 grammes (1 g or... about the weight or three sons) by
town-post 5 0., to the rest of my 206., abroad (per l‘atero) 25 c. The
penalty (:eanataua) for insufﬁciently prepaid letters is double the dell—
cicncy. -— Pos'r Calms (cartolina pariah) {or town-post 5 c., for the rest
0f Italy and abroad 10 e., reply-cards (con Neposla pagata), inland 10 6.,
thread 20 c. -— Linn Canes (bigls'euo pollute) for town-post 5 c., for the
rest of Italy 2) e., for abroad 25 e. -— Boon PACKET! (stamp: roﬂo fascia ).
2:. per 50 grammes, for abroad 5 c. — onrsrasrrox Fan (raccomanda-
done) for letters for the same town and printed matter 10 c.. otherwise
25 e. The packet or letter must be inscribed ‘mccomandata‘. — Pos'r Omen
Owns, see p. xii. Sums not exceeding 25fr. may be sent within Italy
by the so-called cartouna vague (fee 10 c. for 1-5 fr. and 5 c. for each 5 fr.
mare). Honey may also be transmitted by telegraph. To secure registered
letters or the payment of money orders, the stranger must show his pass-
imt or be identiﬁed by two witnesses knowu to the postal authorities.
It is therefore often convenient to arrange to have the money sent to
tree‘s landlord.

