novxoo. 49. Roma. 353

Italic, with a clean trattoria), is noted for its warm saline springs
season, March 16th to Oct. 31“). The baths and lodging-houses

.2—5, D. 41/; fr.) lie in a park at the foot of the hill of Sant'
Elena, which is crowned by a chSteau. In the traohyte rock of this
hill is a natural Vapour Grotto, in which the temperature is 100-
116° Fahr. The baths are found efﬁcacious in cases of gout, chronic
rheumatism, cutaneous disorders, serofula, etc.

A little to the N. of Battagiia is the chateau of Oatts'o, erected by
the Venetian family of the Obilzi, and now the property 0 the Archduke
thois Ferdinand of Este (pr 348), who transferred the collection of anti-

uities to Vienna in 1896. he frescoes by Zelotti are worth seeing. —
he Oratorio San Michele, or Chapel of the chﬁteau, contains good early
Italian pictures. — Fine ark.

Abontill. to the BN8. of Battaglie, and about as far from Monselice
and Esta, on L icturesque slo e on the S.E. verge of the Monti Eugenei,
is situated Arqu Petr-ares. (mo est trsttoria), I village noted for its wine,
where Petrarch lived and died (13061“). His monument in front of the
church consists of a sarcophagus resting on short columns of red marble,
bearing the inscription:

Frigids Francisci lapis hie tegit osss Petrarce,

Buscipe virgo perens animam! Sate virgins, parce!

Fessaque nsm terris cell requiescat in arce.

HOCCLXXIIII. XVIIII. Julii.

0n the top is a bust of Petrarch, dating from 1547. His house charm-
ingly situated in the upper part of the town, with painted wooden ceil-
ings and faded frescoes of scenes from his poems, contains a few reminis-
cences of the poet (adm. lI: fr.).

141/2 M. Mome'l'ioe (Scudo d’Itaiia, plain; one—horse can. to
Battaglia vii Arquh Petrarca, about 4 fr.), a town of 11,571 inhab.,
picturesqnely situated at the S.E. base of the Monti Eugenei, has
remains of fortiﬁed wells and a ruined castle (the Rocco), on a lofty
trsohyte rock (500 ft.).

At Cacao 1’]. M. to the S. of )fonselice, is Count E. Arrigoni degli
Qddi‘s extens ve ornithological collection, to which visitors are cour-
ieously admitted on application.

From lionselice to Ear-tam, see p. 241.

We cross the Battaglia Canal. 18 M. Sant’ Elena. Nest (23 M.)
itanghcua the line crosses the Generic Canal. The country is fer-
ile, but flat and marshy. Near Baara the Adigc is crossed.

271/2 M. Revise (Bu/Tet,- Corona Ferreo, with trattoria, R. 2,
mu. 1/2 in, clean; Gaffe Vittorio Emanuele; omnibus from the
tation to the Piazza Vitt. Emanuele), on the Naoigh'o Adigetto,
so capital of a province, with 10,786 inhab., belonged to Venice
tom 1484 downwards. — An avenue of plane-trees, continued by
he Via Ports Adige and the Via Angeli, leads from the station to
ie Piazza Vittorio Emanuele, passing (on the left) the Palasxo
‘oncali. a Renaissance building by Sanmicheli (1556). In the piazza
and a'Venetian column and a marble Statue of Victor Emmanuelll.
7 Monteverde (1881). Adjoining the Cafe Vittorio Emanuele is
re entrance (marked ‘Acoademia dei Goneordi’) to the ——

szzo Commune, which contains the municipal collections

books and art. .
Bananas. itsly I. 12th Edit. 23.

