224 Route 37. venom. a. Right Bank

Casa Mazzanti, at the corner to the right, originally the residence of
Alberto della Scala (d. 1301), is adorned with frescoes by Cavalli,
an imitator of Giulio Romano. The Fountain, dating from the time
of Berengarins 1., is adorned with a statue of ‘Verona’, partly an-
tique. On the houses opposite are frescoes by Liberals (Coronation
of the Virgin, Adam and Eve) and Girolamo dai Libri (Madonna
and saints). In the centre of the Piazza is the Tribuna, with its
canopy home by four columns, anciently the seat of judgment. The
Casa dci Mcrcanti (1301), at the corner of Via Pelliciai, recently
restored, now contains the commercial court. Opposite rises the
Torre Civtca, or Tower of the Municipio, 273 ft. in height, affording
a ﬁne view (ascent from the court of the Palazzo della Ragione, see
below, laborious; adm. 50 0.). — A short street to the left of the
latter leads to the handsomely paved -—

*Prazza DEI Srenom (Pl. E, F, 3), on the W. side of which is
the old Palazsa dc' Giunconsulti, founded in 1263, but rebuilt in
the 16th century. — On the S. side, immediately to the right of
the tower, is the Palazzo delta Bagionc, founded in 1183; the court
(Mercato occchio) contains a grand ﬂight of steps of the 14th cen-
tury. — Adjoining the pinnacled tower is the Tribunals, and on
the E. side of the piazza is the Prcfcttura, formerly residences of
the Scaligers. The original architecture is seen to best advantage
in the courts, which have been restored. The portal of the Pre-
fettnra is by Sanmicheli. —- At the NE. corner of the piazza stands
the ——

*Palauo del Consiglio, or Old Town Hall, usually called La
Loggia, one of the ﬁnest buildings in N. Italy in the early-Renais-
sance style , erected in 1475—92, probably from designs by Era
Giocondo, originally with statues surmounting the facade (restored
in 1873). By the door are two bronze statues by Girol. Campana,
representing the Annunciation. Over the door is the inscription.
placed here by the Venetians : ‘Pro summa ﬂde summus amor 1592'
Above are statues of celebrated ancient Veronese: Cornelius Nepos
Catullus, Vitruvius, the younger Pliny, and Emilius Macer, the pee
and friend of Virgil. 0n the wall are busts of famous moderr
Veronese. 0n the upper ﬂoor are several tastefully restored room:
(custodian in the court).

The entrances to the Piazza dei Signori are spanned by arehways
Above the arch next the Loggia is a portrait of 067-01. Fracauoro (d. 1555
by Danese Catianeo (1559); in the N.W. corner is a Slalue of Scipio"
Maid, the hi~torian (1675-1755). Behind, in the Via Mazaanti , are
picturesque Fountain of 1478 and the Volta Barbara, under which Hastiu
della Scale is said to have been assassinated in 1217

In the centre of the piazza rises a Statue of Dante (by Zannoni
1865), who found his ﬁrst asylum here with Bartolomeo dell
Scale after his banishment from Florence in 1303.

The passage adjoining the Tribunal leads to the ancient ohurc
of Santa Maria Antica (restored in the original style), with Roman

