the Rialto. VENICE. 42. Route. 299

LG Alan. B the altar to the right of the organ, statues of SS. Rochus
and Sebastian, y .41. Vittoria; a statue of St. Jerome, by Tullfo Lombardo.
SS. Augustine and Theodore on the wings of the organ are hwy-one.
Vaulll‘. Lofty architectural monument of the doges Girolamo (d. 1 ) and
Lorenzo Priuli (d. 1559), with gilded recumbent figures of the brothers.

Then to the right (N.) to the Castro SAN Ban-rononno (Pl. G, 4),
in which a bronze statue, modelled by Dal Zotto, was erected in
1883 to Carlo Goldom’, the dramatist (1707-93). In the church of
SAN Ban'romnno, to the right and left of the organ, SS. Sinihald
and Louis, and to the right and left in the aisles, SS. Bartholomew
and Sebastian, all by Sebastian del Piombo (early works, under
Giorgione’s inﬂuence). — The street to the E. leads past the church
of San Lro (P1. G, H, 4; over the ﬁrst altar on the left Tittan’s
St. Jago de Compostella, 1565) to Santa Maria Formosa, see p. 302.
The Fame Rialto lies to the W. of the Campo S. Bartolomeo
(p. 294).

We cross the piazza in a straight (N.) direction, pass the Fon-
daco dc‘ Tcdcschi (p. 295) on the left, and reach, on the right -—-

San Giovanni Orisostdmo (Pl. G, 4’), erected in the early-
Renaissance style after 1497 by More Coducci.

second altar on the left, Coronation of the Virgin, and the Apostles,
reliefs by Tullto Lombardo. First altar on the right, 0601:. Bellini, '83. Jerome,
Christopher, and Augustine in a beautiful mountainous landscape (his last
signed work, in his 86th year, 1518-, restored in 1895): ‘John Bellini is
the only artist who appears to me to have united in equal and magnificent
measures, justness of drawing, nobleness of colouring, and perfect man-
lincss of treatment, with the purest rcli ions feeling‘ (Ruskin). At the
sides are two saints by Giro}. do Santa 'oca, formerly the panels of an
organ; two others are in the aisle to the left, in the chapel next the high—
altar. — High-altar (good light at midday), Heb. do! Hombo, “St. Chrysostom
with 88. Augustine, John the Baptist, Liberale, Catharine, Agnes, and Mary
Magdalen, the master‘s most im ortant work while under the inﬂuence
of Giorgione, painted about 1 , immediately before his departure for
Rome (restored in 1895; closed): ‘there is much to characterise Sebastian
in the ideal aensualism and consciously attractive bearing which distinguish
the females on the left foreground' (C. J;- G.). Base of the altar, Entomb-
ment, a relief by an unknown master of the 17th century.

Beyond the church is the Tcatro Malibmn (Pl. G, 4). Adjacent,
in the Gorte della Sabbiouera, is the Palazzo dei Polo (12th cent),
the birthplace of the traveller Marco Polo (1269-1323). Farther on,
beyond the second bridge, is the church of the —

Santi Apostoli (Pl. G, 3), rebuilt in 1672, but including the
Cappclla Comer (second chapel on the right), which belonged to
the earlier church, erected by Gugl. Bergamasco about 1530. It
contains two monuments of the Corner family and a beautiful altar-
piece by Ticpolo, Communion of St. Lucia (restored), To the left
in the choir: Paolo Veronesc, Shower of Manna.

Opposite is the old Scuola dcll‘ Angelo Custode (Pl. G, 3, 4;
German Prot. church), with a facade by Andr. Tiraii (1734); it
contains a Christ by Titian ('2).

To the N.W. of the Campo SS. Apostoli runs the new Conso
VITTOBJO EMANUEL]; (Pl. F, G, 3), the broadest street in Venice,

