oumtm. MILAN. 19. Route. 189

the life of St. Peter Martyr, the Annunciation, and the Assum tion, prob-
ably by Vine. Foppa. -- In the sacristy is a Penitent 8t. erome, by
Boraapnone. — The adjacent convent is now a. bar-rack.

We follow the street to the Porta Ticincse (Pl. D, 8), originally
intended to commemorate the Battle of Mareng’o, but inscribed in
1815 ‘Paci Populorum Sospitee’. We then turn to the E. and shirt
the city-walls to the Porta Lodovica (Pl. E, 8), whence we follow
the Conso SAN Cano (Pl. E, 8, 7), to the left, to the church of
Santa Maria presso San Cello (Pl. E, 8), built in the Renaissance
style by Gino. Dolccbuono after 1490. It possesses a handsome
atrium (1514), groundlessly attributed to Bramante, and a rich
facade by Galeazzo Alessi (1569-72). 0n the right and left of the
portal are Adam and Eve by Stoldo Lorenzi.

The In'rnnron is in the form of a basilica with barrel-vaulting over
the nave, a. dodecagonal enpola, and an ambulatory. By the 2nd altar to '
the right, Holy Family and St. Jerome, by Pan's Bordon“ Gaudems'o Fer-
rari, Baptism of Christ (behind the high-altar); at the beginning of the
left aisle, Borgognone, Madonna and saints; below it, Sarsoferrato, Madonna.
The 2nd chapel on the left contains a sarcophagus with the relics of St. Cel-
sus. The cupola is decorated with frescoes by Appiam' (1795). - In the
sMristy are some ﬁne specimens of guldsmith’s work.

Adjacent is the Romanesque church of San Cclso, docked of its
W. half in 1826 and now possessing few remains of the original
Structure. Altar-piece by Moretto: Conversion of St. Paul.

At the N. end of the Corso San Celso is the Piazza Sant’ Eu—
fcmia, in which, to the right, stands the church of that name (PI. 15,7),
dating from the 5th cent., and recently restored. in the third
chapel on the left is a Madonna with saints and angels, by Marco
d’ Osgiono. —- A little to the S. is the church of Ban Paolo, a richly
ornamented and characteristic building of the middle of the 16th
century. The architectural decorations of the facade already i1-
lustrate the principles of the later baroque style, and this is seen
even more strongly in the interior, which is adorned with frescoes
by the brothers Giulio, Antonio, and Vincenzo Oampi of Cremona.

The Via Amedci leads hence towards the N. to Bant’ Alessandro
(Pl. E, 6), erected about 1602 by Lor. Binago, a reduced and in
the interior successful copy of St. Peter's at Rome, with two W.
towers. The sumptuous decorations date from the close of the
17th century. High—altar adorned with precious stones. -—Adjacent
is the Paluzo Trivulzio, with a handsome baroque portal. This
palazzo (adm. by special introduction only) contains a valuable art-
mllection, in which the most noteworthy objects are the tomb of
Azzone Visconti (1328-39) from San Gottardo; the statuette of a
Warrior, being a bronze copy of one of the ﬁgures of Leon. da Vinci’s
ﬁrst model for the equestrian monument to Franc. Sforza (p. 117);
t relief-portrait by Cristoforo Solari; a portrait by Antonella da
Marina,- and 3 Madonna by Mantegna (1497). The extensive
library contains a Dante codex of 1337, a MS. of Leonardo da
Vinci, and other rarities.

