342 Route 46. PARMA. Baptistcry.

5th Chapel to the left of the entrance contains frescoes of the 14th cent,
on the left History of St. Peter, on the right SS. Sebastian and Catherine.

The *Baptistery (Battistero; P1. E, 3), on the S. side of the
Piazza. del Duomo, built in the Lombard-Romanesque style in 1196-
1270, externally octagonal, with three round-arched portals, is
constructed of Veronese marble, and consists of ﬁve stories with
colonnades; the ﬂat roof is surmounted by seven pyramidal turrets
and by s belfry added in the 17th century. Around nearly the whole
exterior of the building runs a series of medallions, representing
various animals of symbolical import. The portals are adorned with
the following Scriptural subjects: ——

At the N. Portal (towards the Piazza), above, is the Adoration of the
Magi; then the History of John the Baptist; on the door-posts are genes-
logical trees of Jacob and of Jesse. —- At the W. Portal, above, a curious
representation of the Last Judgment. 0n the door-posts to the left, Christ
performing works of mercy; on the right, the six ages of men. — 0n the
S. side is an Allegory of Death from the story of Barlaam and Josephat
All these are probably by Benedetto Antelami, whose name appears as the
master from the inscription on the N. portal.

The ln'rsaxoa (closed; key in the house No. 2, opposite the S. entrance)
is sixteen-sided, with thirteen niches and three doorways below and two
galleries above, and graceful columns on the walls. The sculptures have
been only partly completed. Above the doors are sculptures of the 13th cent.
and on the E. side of the lower galleries is a series of ‘Beliefs of the
months (incomplete) and other works of the 13th century. The Roman-
elque frescoes in the dome (13th cent), representing the history of John
the Baptist and prophets, are of interest to students of art. -— The whole
population of Parma since 1216 is said to have been baptised here. The
font dates from 1294.

The church of *San Giovanni Evangelista (P1. E, 3), belong-
ing to an ancient Benedictine monastery, which is now a barrack, is
an elegant cruciform Renaissance structure, covered by a dome,
with aisles and two series of chapels. It was erected in 1510 by
Bemardino Zaccagm'; the handsome baroque facade is by Simone
Moschino (1604), and the tower by G. B. Magnani (1614).

Inn-.2103. In the first two chapels on the left, Frescoes by Pamu‘m‘c-
m'no (SS. Lucia and Apollonia, two deacons, SS. Giorgio and Agata); in
the 1st chapel on the right, a handsome monument of the Countess Alberta
Sanvitale-Montenuovo, daughter of Marie Louise, the wife of Napoleon 1.;
in the 2nd chapel on the right, an Adoration of the Shepherds, by Giacomo
Francia, 1519. In the recesses of the transepts are four terracotta statues
by AM. Beam-cut (1561); to the left, Madonna and St. John the Evangelist.
to the right, ﬁt. Felicitas and St. Benedict. The sombre Don is adorned
with °Frescoes by Gorreggx'o, representing Christ in glory, surrounded by
Ipostles and angels, painted in 1521-24. (freely restored in parts in 1901).
The best time to see them is at noon or d p.m.; they are also shown by
electric light in the evening for 3—8 fr. (copies in the picture-gallery, see
p. 844). The half-dome of the Choir. containing a Coronation of lary by
Correggio, was removed in 1584 (the original of the principal group is in
the Library, p. 545; copies of other parts are in the picture-gallery, see
p. 844). The new dome of the choir was adorned with I- copy of the
complete work by Gas. Arstuu‘. The handsome choir-stalls are by Zucchi
and Tests. In the archway of the door of the sacristy (left transepl),
‘St. John the Evangelist by Correws‘o. — The picturesque cloisters (to the
left of the church) are not accessible.

A few paces to the N.W. of the Piazza Garibaldi, in a small

