Cathedral. FLORENCE. 53. Route. 453

Riem- Alana. Monument of Filip o Bruneileschi (d. 1M6), with his
portrait in marble, by Bagytano (p. ). Statue of Joshua by Otuﬂaynt:
to the left of the latter, Bust of Giotto by Benedetto da hajano (1490),
with a ﬁne inscription by Angelo Poliziano; (1.) on the pillar a line re-
ceptacle for holy water of the 14th century. (L; over the door) Monument
of General Pietro Farnese (d. 1361), by Aynnlo Gaddl' and Peullo (1395);
farther on, Statue of isaiah by Ctufagni. Bust of the learned Marsilius
Fidnus (d. 1:199), by A. Ferrucci (1521). Adjacent, over the door, the mon-
ument of Antonio Orso, Bishop of Florence (d. 1336), by Tina at Camaino
of Siena, with the ﬁgure of the deceased in a sitting posture. By the
pillar of the dome, towards the nave, St. Matthew, a statue by Vincenso
de’ Rout; opposite to it, St. James the Elder, by Jacopo Sansootno (1513).

Rmn‘r Aux or run Oo'noos: (r.) St. Philip, (1.) St. James the Younger,
by Giovanni dalt‘ Opera. Each of the four side-chapels is adorned with two
saints, painted al fresco by Bioct di Loremo (M27). The stained-glass windows
are from designs by A. Gaddl’. —— Over the door of the S. Seems-n (Sag-ratio

Yea-Ma), a relief (Ascension) by Luca della Robbie: (1M6); within, two
angels by the same. In this sacristy Lorenzo de’ Medici sought refuge in
1:1 8, on the outbreak of the conspiracy of the Paui (p. M1), to which
his brother Giuliano fell a victim, while attending mass in the choir.

In the E. part of the New: (Tribuna at San Zambi), by the piers, statues
of (r.) St. John, by Benedetto da Rocenano, and (1.) St. Peter, by Bacot’o
Bandtnellt. The dark chs els contain the statues of the Evangelists,
executed for the facade o the church in 1408-18. N. side: 1st Chapel:
St. Luke. by [Vanni at Banco; 2nd Chapel, 'St. John, by Donatello, an early
work. In the cha els on the 8., St. Matthew by (Malawi,- St. Mark by
Niccolo d'Areuo. slow the altar of the chapel of St. Zenobius (in the
middle) is a 'BeliquAaArg containing the remains of the saint, in bronze,
by Lorenzo Ghibertt (1 ). The stained-glass windows are also from designlt
by Ghibertt’. Behind the altar, the Last Supper on a golden ground, by
Giovanni Balducd. '

The octagonal Cnom occupies the space beneath the dome. lts marble
screens, designed by Giuliano at Baccio d‘Agnolo, and adorned with bee-reliefs
of the a. ostles by Bandtnellt (with the initials B. B. and date 1555) and
his pupi Giovanni dall‘ Opera, were erected to replace the original wooden
screens of Ghiberti. Behind the high—altar, an unfinished group (Pieth) by
Michael Angelo (late work). — The paintings in the octagonal dome, begun
in 1572 by Vasari, and continued by Federtgo Zucchero (prophets, etc.),
diminish its impressive eﬂect. The windows in the drum of the dome
were executed b Bernardo «it Francesco from designs by Glu‘berti (Pre-
sentation in the emple), Donatello (Coronation of the Virgin), and Paolo
Uccello (Adoration of the Magi).

The bronze 'Door of the N. SACRIST! (Saw-utter Nuova), originally en-
trusted to Donatello, was executed by Luca delta Roobta, aided by Mara
ds' Bartolomeo and Michelozzo (144667). in the central panels are Evangel-
iste, fathers of the church, etc., surrounded by small portrait-heads. Above
it, a has-relief in terracotta (Resurrection) by Luca delta Robbta (1143).
The intarsia work and frieze of children on the cabinets in this sacristy
were executed from designs by Giuliano and Benedetto da Malaria.

Lsn‘ Amt or run Ooncox. Statues of St. Andrew and St. Thomas by
Andrea Format (1512) and Vine. de‘ Rout. in the chapels. frescoes by Bicci
ds' Lorenzo. The ten stained-glass windows are ascribed to Lor. G/u'berll'.
1n the tribune is a round brass slab, placed here in the year 1511 for the
purpose of making solar observations through a corresponding a erture
in the dome. In 1755 P. Leonardo Xl'menes added a graduated dial in
order to admit of more accurate observations, as an inscription on the
left entrance-pillar records.

Len Axsm. By the side-door is a portrait of Dante, with a view of
Florence and scene from the Divine Comedy, painted on wood by
Dmem'co di Hichsltno in 1465 by command of the republic. Statue of
David by Ciuyagm' $434). Bust of Antonio Squarcialupi (p. 451) by Benc-
detto da Maiano. hen Arnolfo, wtih the design for the cathedral, a
medallion in high relief by Lor. Bartols'm' (184.3). 'Statne of Poggio Brae.

