ofthe Adige. venous. 37. Router 229

lumen. 1st chepel on the right: Frescoes of legendery subjects by

. —— 2nd slter on the right, Xadonne end seints by Minor!

(1 J. — 4th chepel on the right: Dome». Morons, ceiling-frescoes end
life of St. Anthony (restored). —- 5th chapel: on the altar-well copies from
Gasman (in the Husenm); ebove, Christ on the Cross end ES. John end

' lery, by 15-. Heroes (use); on the left, Christ perting from his mother by

Carole, end three peintings from the Passion by Giolﬁno. — At the end to
the right is the entrenee to the 'Cappella Pellegn‘m‘, by scum.“ (1567,
restored 1.7%), with beautiful Renaissance decoretion. — In the choir, to
the left, Madonna with seints, by Bar-agile. -— Organ of 11.81. 0n the
argue-doors are 88. Bernnrdino end Frencis, end (over the portal) SS.
Bonsventure end Lodovico, by Fr. Morons. — The CLOIITIBS end one
of the chepels contain frescoes by Gtolﬂno (eerly works). —- In the Rs.-
!sorosr of the snonestery, frescoes by Dom. Morons (7), accessible only
from the street.

To the N. of this point lies ‘Bsn Zeno Inggiore [P]. A, 2; reached
by the Vlcolo Lungo Ssn Bernerdino or also by following the new

- embsnkment on the Adige, with its line views, to the N.W. of the
' Guts] Vecchio, p. 227), one of the ﬁnest Romanesque churches in

t

N. Itely, of most noble proportions, restored since 1870. The interior
of this ﬁst-roofed bssllioe, which dates from the 11th cent., is
supported by elternste columns and pillsrs. The nsve in its present
form was begun in 1138; the choir dates from the 13th century.

The PORTAL, the columns of which rest on lions of red merble, is
embellished with reliefs of Scriptural subjects by Nicolas“ end Wittgelmul

' (1139). Below, to the right, Theodoric, es s wild huntsmsn, is speeding
: headlong to the devil. At the top of the door-posts ere the twelve months.
- The doors are covered with rude bronne reliefs from the Bible end the
-, life of Bt. Zeno.

Ilnnrnl. in the corner to the right, en sncicnt octagonal font- behind

V it, e fresco of St. Zeno (14th cent.). The holy-water basin, by the 1st column

rand ﬁgures in coloured low relief. —-

on the right, rests on an inverted antique oepitnl. 0p osite is en ancient

'porshyry vase, 28 ft. in circumference; beyond it, n ne Gothic cruciﬁx.

n the Choir Screen ere marble statues of Christ and the Apostles (13th
can), still retaining traces of colouring; 0n the well below sre Ornaments
0 the left of the choir. frescoes of

the itth cent., under which are traces of others of the 12th; to the right,
frescoes of the 11th and 13th centuries. To the right of the steps to the

chair is an altar, ﬂanked on each side with four monolithic columns of

brown marble, resting on lions and bulls. To the right, above, is e
psinted merble ﬁgure of St. Zeno (d. 380), n ﬁshermen and sfterwsrds
Bishop of Verona, sscribed to the 9th century. Gothic choir-stells. Behind
the high-ulter- is en ndmireble ‘Picture (covered) by Mantegna (1459):
lsdonne enthroned, with sngels and saints; on the left, 88. Peter, Pen],
John, and Augustine; on the right, 88. John the Baptist, Gregory, Lew-
rence, and Benedict, in solemn attitude and full of individnelity, with
remsrkebly rich scoessories. (The predells pictures ere copies.) —
The specious Carr‘r contains the tnstetul bronze tomb of St. Zeno, from
designs by the brothers Spam (1889), with seeted ﬁgures of Religion
Love, Faith, and Hope.

The loft bettlemented Tmm- on the N. side of the church, and the
Chillers wit ele ent double columns, are the last relics of e convent
(suppressed in 1 ) repeatedly inhabited by the medieval German em-
Ptmrs on their journeys to Rome. 0n the top ﬂoor of the tower ere
Same old Romanesque well-paintings, end in the cloisters is a. small
museum of Christian sntiquities (fee to the wellrinformed sscristen, 1/s-1 ﬁn).

. To the W. of S. Zeno is the Porto Sam Zeno (Pi. A, 1), erected
In 1540 by Sanmicheli.

