316 Route 42. VENICE. 9. From St. Mark to

(HM-64). In the chapel to the left of the choir is the tomb of the jurist
Giov. Batt. Ferretti, by Bamm‘cheliﬂ). — Larr All“. 3rd altar (1.), statues
of St. Jerome and St. Paul by Helm Lombardo.

Adjoining the church on the left are handsome Cloisters (1532),
once adorned with frescoes by Pordenone (badly restored). — Cross-
ing the court, we reach the Campo Sant’ Angelo (P1. F, 5), with
a marble monument to Paleocapa, the minister (p. 36), by L. Fer-
rari. —— Farther to the N.E., near the Tcatro Rossini, is the Piazza
Manin (P1. F, G, 5), adorned with a Monument of Daniele Manin
(_ p. 267) in bronze, by Borro. On the Cassa dz“ Risparmio (Sav-
ings Bank) is a marble tablet commemorating the fact that the
famous Aldine Press once occupied this site. [The tablet on another
house in the parish of S. Agostino, associating it also with Aldus,
is probably wrong; comp. ‘The Venetian Printing Press‘, by H. F.
Brown.) We then traverse the Calle della Vida (right) and, taking
the ﬁrst side-street to the right, reach the szzo Comanmr mu.
Bovono, now belonging to the Congregazicne di Carith. This contains
the ”Scale Minelh' or Scala a Chioceiola, ‘a curious spiral staircase
in a round tower of Istrian marble, constructed by Giov. Candi '
(d. 1499). -

We now retrace our steps and cross the Gampo Morosini to the
S.W. to the church of SAN VITALR(P1. E, 6), built about 1700 by
Andr. Timli. It contains (behind the high-altar) a good painting
by Carpaccio, of St. Vitalls on horseback surrounded by four saints;
above, four other saints and the Madonna in clouds (1514). — We
then cross the Grand Canal by the iron bridge (1). 292) to the Campo
delta Carith (p. 292) and the Academy (p. 283).

We now proceed towards the E., crossing several bridges, to —

‘Santa Maria. dolls Salute (Pl. F, 6; comp. p. 265; side-entrance
to the left), a spacious dome-covered church, at the E. extremity
of the Canal Grande, erected in 1631-56 by Longhcna, in commem-
oration of the plague in 1630. ‘Gonsidering the age in which it
was erected, it is singularly pure’, though ‘extemally it is open to
the criticism of being rather too overloaded with decoration’ (Fer-
gusson). The octagonal interior, with an ambulatory all round, is
very handsome.

Cannes on rue Rmnr: 1. Presentation in the Temple, 2. As-
sumption, 3. Nativity of the Virgin, all by Luca Giordano. In the last
Caspar. 0N nu: LEFT: Descent of the Holy Ghost, by Titian, much dark-
ened by age (154.3). The monolithic columns by which the vaulting of the
choir is supported are from a Roman temple at P013. in Istria. On the
high-altar, the Virgin banishing the demons of the plague, a. group in
marble by Giulio to Court,- to the left, a large candelabrum in bronze by
Andrea d‘Alusandro da Brenda (1570), of admirable workmanship. 0n the
ceiling at the back of the altar, eight Medallions with portraits of the
evangelists and fathers of the church by Titian,- the large pictures by
Saloo‘ati. -— OUTER Sacms'rr: Pieta, a relief by Tunic Lombardo ('3); kneel-
ing statue of Doge Agostino Barbarigo, from his tomb. — Sacarsrr: end-
wall, to the right, 88. Rochus, Jerome, and Sebastian by Girolamo da

Treviso ('2); on the window-wall: Marco Baum, St. Sebastian; ﬁnwretta,
Marriage at Cans. Over the altar: Titian, ‘St. Mark and four other saints

