326 Route 43. UDINE. From Venice

peace of Campo Formio (p. 325), and a bronze equestrian Statue of
Victor Emmanuel 11., by Fr. Bazaghi (1883). In front of the Clock
Tower are two colossal Marble Statues of Hercules and Gacus, and
at the corners rise two lofty Columns.

The Puazzo DBL MUNICIPIO (Pl. B, 3, 4), or Pal. Cicico, was
built: in 1457 in the style of the Doges’ palace at Venice, and after
the tire of 1876 was restored by the Milanese architect Scala. The
vestibule contains a fresco by Pordemme (1516; restored), repre-
senting the Virgin and Child, with angels playing musical instru-
ments. In the inner hall are a marble statue of Man, by V. Lucardi
(1854), the Invasion of Attila, a colossal painting by Dom. Someda
(1889), a Last Supper by Pomponio Amalteo, and a Gathering of
Manna by Grassi. On the ﬁrst ﬂoor are four rooms containing old
pictures.

A few paces to the S.W., in the Via della Posts, stands the
Romanesque Camnma (Pl. 0, 4), which possesses a ﬁne side-
portal with marble sculptures and a hexagonal campanile. The
interior contains an Equestrian Statue of Count Antonint, who fell in
1617 before Gradisca as general of the Udine militia (over the main
entrance); a colossal Bust of Pope Pius IX. by Lucardi (to the left
of the high—altar); and a Statue of Abp. Zacharias Bricito (d. 1854),
by Millisini (to the right). — Beyond the cathedral is the small
Chiesa alla Purita (P1. 0, 4), adorned with noteworthy frescoes by
Giov. Batt. and Dom. Tiepolo.

The narrow Via Lovaria leads from the Via della Posts to the
N.E. to the small Giardino Pubblico, which contains numerous ﬂue
cypresses. Adjacent rises the ‘AaonusrrscoraL Panama (Palauo
delt’ Arctoeacooado; Pl. 0, 3), which, as is indicated by memorial tab-
lets, was occupied by Pope Pius VI. in 1782, Napoleon in 1807,
and Victor Emmanuel II. in 1866.

Isramon. The Srarncasa is adorned by a Fall of the Angels by ﬁepolo
while the Texans Rom: contains the portraits of all the patriarchs 01
Aquileia and of the bishops and archbishops of Udine. Other frescoes by
ﬁspolo adorn the Sana Rossa (Judgment of Solomon, etc.) and the Ganusnr
(history of Jacob, with Abraham‘s Sacriﬁce on the ceilin ). The Star:
Bar) CHAMBER contains ﬁve frescoes (freely retouched) of ew Testament
scenes by Giovanni da (Mina, with arabesqnes.

From the Piazza Vitt. Emanuele we may proceed to the N.W.
across the Mercato Vecohio (Pl. B, 3), or direct through the Via
Sotto Monte, to the Palace Bartolim‘, which contains the M0830
Crvrco and the Library.

On the Gnousn Freon are Roman antiquities and a colossal bust of
Dante. The Urran FLoon contains paintings: Girol. da Udl'ns, Cor-
onation of the Virgin; Palma Gtouane, St. Mark receiving from the Virgin
a banner bearin the arms of Udine in the background the town of
Udine; ﬁepolo, ouncil of the Grand heater and Cha ter of the Knights
of Malta, decidin on the admission of the nobles of dine to the Order.
Here also are a ollsctiou of Coins, with a complete series of the coins
of all the patriarchs of Aquileia. and some ﬁne works in amber. - The
Library is specially rich in works upon Friuli.

, /

x

