l ITALIAN ART.

era. In this material, decision and pregnancy of form are expressm
without restraint, and almost, as it were, spontaneously. Works ii
marble also occur, but these generally trench on the province 0
decoration, and seldom display the bold and unfettered aspiration
which are apparent in the works in bronze.

The churches have always afforded the most important ﬁeld to
the labours of the Italian sculptors, some of them, such as Sana
Croce at Florence, the Frari and Santi Giovanni e Paolo at Venice
and Sant’ Antonio at Padua, forming very museums of Renaissanc-
soulpture. At the same time many of the wealthier families (th:
'Medici and others) embellished their mansions with statuary, am
the art of the sculptor was frequently invoked with a view to erec
a ﬁtting tribute to the memory or some public benefactor (such a
the equestrian statues at Venice and Padua).

At Florence, the cradle of Renaissance sculpture, we becom
Scum-03, acquainted with Ghiberti and Della Robbie, who have bee:
or ran Ra. already mentioned , and with the famous DONATELLO (pro
"”“m’l perly DONA'ro DI Nicoono Dr Burro Bannr, 1386—1466), wh

introduced a naturalistic style, which , though often harsh, is ﬁll
of life and character. The Judith Group in the Loggia de’ Lam
is an exaggerated and unpleasing example of this style, the maste
having aimed at the utmost possible expressiveness, while the line
and contours are entirely destitute of ease. Among Donatello‘
most successful works on the other hand are his statue of St. Georg
and his Victorious David in bronze in the Museo Nazionale (p. 473:
a collection invaluable to the student of the early Renaissance. Th
reliefs on the two pulpits in San Lorenzo and the sculptures in th
sacristy of that church (p. 600) should also be inspected. Dona
tello’s finest works out of Florence are his numerous sculptures i
Sant’ Antonio at Padua.

The next sculptor of note was ANDREA VBnnocor-no (1435-88
Most of the other masters of this period (ANroNIo RossnLLrNé
MrNo DA FrasoLn, Dssmnmo DA SamoNANo) were chieﬂy oc
oupied in the execution of tombstones , and do not occupy
position of much importance; but the life and sense ofbeauty whic
characterise the early Renaissance are admirably exempliﬁed in th
works of the comparatively unknown Mamno Crvu'ALr of Lucc
Sp. 416). Important Florentine masters of the ﬁrst half of th

6th cent. were Grov. meo. Rns'rror (1474-1554), who was perhap
inspired by Leonardo da Vinoi, and particularly ANDREA Smsovm
(1460-1529), the author of the exquisite group of Christ and the Bap
tist in the Baptister at Florence, of superb monuments at Rome (i
the choir of S. Maria del Popolo), and of part of the sculptures whic
adorn the Santa Casa near Ancona. Northern Italy also contribute
largely to the development of the plastic art. The Gertosa at Pavit
for example, aﬂ‘orded occupation during several decades to numerou
artists, among whom the most eminent were GIOVANNI ANTON]

