514 Route 58. FLORENCE. h. Left Bank of the Arno:

‘174. Raphael, Vision of Ezekiel: God the Father, enthroned
on the living creatures of three of the Evangelists, is adored by
the angel of St. Matthew.

‘Even in his imitation of Michaelangelesqne types Raphael exhibits
great freedom and the clearest consciousness of what is best adapted to
his natural gifts an of where his true strength lies. This remark appliu
to the small picture of Ezekiel in the Pitti Gallery, so miniature-like in its
lineness of execution, though less striking in the colouring. In the arrange-
ment of the two smaller angels who support the arms of the Almighty.
the example of Michael Angelo was followed. From the testimony of V»
sari, howei/er, we know that in portraying Jehovah, Raphael sought ia-
spiration in the classical Jupiter, and certainly the features strongly recall
the types of the antique divinity‘. — Springer.

‘172. A. del Sarto , Conference of the Fathers of the Church
regarding the doetrine of the Trinity (the ‘Disputa’J, paintedin
1517. — Raphael, ‘61. Angiolo Doni, the friend of the painter;
‘59. Maddalena Strozzi-Doni, wife of Angiolo.

. These portraits were painted during the Florentine period of the artisl
(about 1505). No. 61 recalls the painter‘s intercourse with Franc. Francis,
while the other suggests the inﬂuence of Leonardo da Vinci.

*171. Raphael, Tommaso Fedra Inghirami, humanist and plpll
secretary (original in America).

‘The fact that the man is represented at a moment of wrapt suspense
and inward concentration diverts the attention from the unpleaslag fea-
tures, and ennobles and idealises the head, which, while certainly not
handsome, cannot be denied the possession of intellect and a nameless
power of attraction‘. - Springer.

‘165. Raphael, Madonna del Baldacchino.

This picture dates from the period of his intercourse with Fra Bar-
tolomeo, and was left unoompleted on the migration of the master to
Rome in 1509. It was ﬁnally completed by Giulio Romano and others.

164. Pietro Perugino, Entombment (Pieta), painted in 1495;
161. Bonifazio 1., Finding of Moses; ‘159. Fra Bartolomeo, Risen
Christ among the four Evangelists (1516; injured). — ‘158. Ra-
phael, Portrait of a cardinal, said to be Card. Dovizi da Bibienn
(copy; the original at the Prado in Madrid); 157. Copy after T was.
Bacchanalian scene.

“151. Raphael, Madonna della Sedia (or Seggiola), painted
during the artist’s Roman period.

,. ‘In this picture Raphael returns to the early and simple subjects of
representation, breathing nothing but serene happiness, which gladdea
the artist and charm the beholder, which say little and yet possess 8v
deep a signiﬁcance. Florentine forms have been supplanted by Roman
ones, and tender and clear beauty of colouring has given place to a broad
and picturesque style of laying on the pigments. . . . At least ﬁfty en~
gravers have tried their skill upon the Madonna dell: Bedia, and photo
graphic copies have been disseminated by thousands. No other picture
of Raphael is so popular, no other work of modern art so well known‘. —-
Spriuyer.

‘150. Com. Jamsens van Oeulen (here ascribed to Van Dyck),
Charles I. of England and his queen Henrietta of France; 149.
Pontormo gmore probably Ang. Bromino '3), Guidobaldo 11., Duke of
Urbino; 14 .Dosso Dossi, Merry party; 147. Dosso Dossi( Giorgiom‘b,
Nymph pursued by a satyr.

