xvi RAILWAYS .

is very moderate, rarely reaching 30 M. per hour. The ﬁrst-class.
carriages are comfortable, the second resemblethe English and French,
while the third class is chieﬂy frequented by the lower orders.

Among the expressions with which the railway-traveller Will soon
become familiar are — ‘prorm’ (ready), ‘partma‘ (departure), ‘si cambia
treno‘ (change carriages), ‘uurs in cotutdmm‘ (to make connection), and
‘tuctta‘ (e ). The station-master is called ‘eapouaﬂm‘; the guard, con-
duuore. making compartments are labelled ‘pd MN, those for non-
smokers ‘cs‘etato all fumare’. The international trains do 1m are generally
available for long-distance travellers only. The mail trains are called
Trent Medium (lst and 2nd class only; sometimes with dining and sleep-
ing cars) and the ordinary expresses M Dir-out. The ﬂat Aceslerati are
somewhat faster than the Trent Omnibus. The ”out you are composed
partly of passenger—carriages and partly of goods-wagons. The fares of
the Reta Adriatiea and Beta Mediterranea are (for the three classes) 12.75,
8.95. and 5.80 e. per kilometre by the express-trains, and 11.60, 8.12, and
5.22 c. by the slow trains. In addition to this there is a government tax
of 8 per cent. on all fares above 90 c. (included in the fares given in the
railway time- tables), and there is also a stamp-duty of 5 e. on each ticket.

The best Tuna Tamas is the Orario Ufﬁciale delta Strode Ferrate,
delta Tramm'e, delta Naoiyasione e delta Messaggerie postoti del Reyna,
published by the Fratelti Posse at Turin (price 1 in). Smaller
editions are issued at 80 c., 50 0., and 20 c.

Trcxs'rs. At the larger towns it is better, when possible, to take
the tickets at the town-agencies of the railway. When tickets are
taken at the station, the traveller will ilnd it convenient to have as
nearly as possible the exact i’are ready in his hand. ‘Mistakes’ are
sometimes made by the ticket-clerks. It is also important to be at
the station early. The ticket-ofﬁce at large stations is open 40 min.,
at small stations 20 min. before the departure of the train. Ticket-
holders alone have the right of admission to the waiting—rooms. At
the end of the journey tickets are given up at the menu. -— Holders
of tickets for distances over 124 M. may break the journey once,
those with tickets for over 310 M. twice; but the ticket must be
shown to the capostazione on leaving the train, and again presented
at the ticket-office to be stamped before the journey is resumed.

RETURN Trcxnrs (Biglietti di andata-ritomo) for distances up to
100 kilometres (62 M.) are valid for one day only, up to 200 kil.
for 2 days, up to 300 kil. for 3 days, and beyond 300 kil. for 4 days.
But those issued on Saturdays and the eves of festivals are avail-
able for three, those issued on Sundays and festivals for two days
at least. These tickets do not allow the journey to be broken.

CIRCULAR Torm Trcxm's are of two kinds: for routes ﬁxed by
the railway company (bigtietti circolari combinati) and for routes
arranged to meet the wishes of particular travellers (biglietti circotari
combinabili). Full details as to these are given in the larger edition
of the Ovario Ufﬁciate (see above). Tickets of the latter kind are
not issued for distances below 400 kil. (248 M.); tickets for 800 kl].
permit the retum—joumey by the same route as the outward journey,
but holders of tickets for less than 800 kil. are not permitted to

