Palaua mm. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 513

to Raphael (known as ‘La Donna Gravida’); 228. Titian, Half-
length of the Saviour, a youthful work. — "225. A. del Sarto,
Assumption.

This picture shows with what versatility Del Sarto was gifted. It
is marked by quiet and orderly distribution, and something reminiscent of
Fra Bartolommeo. The Virgin is raised u towards heaven most gracefully,
and there is an atmosphere almost like orreggio‘s in the glory (C. J: (7.).

‘At Florence only can one trace and tell how great a painter and how
various Andrea was. There only, but surely there, can the spirit and pre-
sence of the things oftime on his immortal spirit be understood‘ (Swinburne).

224. Bid. Ghirlandajo (‘1’), Portrait of a lady (1509); 218.
Salvator Rosa, A warrior. -— ‘216. Paolo Veroncse, Daniel Barbaro,
Venetian savant and ambassador to England; 215. Titian, Portrait,
probably of Don Diego de Mendoza (badly preserved); 214. Copy
of Correggio’s Madonna di San Girolamo (p. 344); 208. Pro Bar-
tolomeo, Madonna enthroned, with saints and angelic musicians
(1512; injured); 207. Rid. Ghirlandajo (?), Portrait of a gold-
srnlth; 201. Titian, Cardinal prolito de’ Medici in Hungarian
costume, painted in 1532, after the campaign against the Turks,
in which the cardinal had taken part; 200. Titian, Philip II. of
Spain (copy). .

191. Andrea del Sarto, Assumption (last, unﬁnished work, with

a portrait of the artist as one of the Apostles); ‘190. Easter-mans,
Portrait of a Danish prince; 188. Saluator Rosa, Portrait of him-
self; 184. Andrea del Sarto, Portrait (injured).

“185. Giorgione (according to Morelli a youthful work of Ti-
:ian; badly preserved), ‘The Concert’, representing an Augustine
monk who has struck a chord, another monk with a lute, and a
youth in a hat and plume listening.

‘In one of the simplest arrangements of half lengths which it is
:ossible to conceive, movement, gesture, and ex ression tell an entire
isle. . . . The subtlety with which the tones are roken is extreme, but
:he soberness of the general intonation is magical. Warm and spacious
ights, strong shadows, delicate reﬂections, gay varieties of tints, yield a
oer-feet harmony . . . How fresh and clean are the extremities, and with
Jvhat masterly ease they are done at the ﬁnish? What sleight of hand in the
‘u re, what pearly delicacy in the lawn of the white sleeves ?‘— 0. c2 0.

237. Rasso Fiorentino, Madonna enthroned, with saints; be-
:ide the door, ’235. Rubens, Holy Family.

SALOON or Sa'rmm. Ceiling-painting by Pietro da Cortona.
xbove the door, 179. Sebastiano del Piombo, Martyrdom of St.
xgatha 1520; showing Michael Angelo's inﬂuence).

*‘17 . Raphael, Madonna del Granduca, a work of the master’s
?10rentine period, formerly in the grand-ducal apartments.

‘Painted in light colours and modelled with extraordinary delicacy,
he picture captivates us chieﬂy by the half-concealed beauty of the Ma-
.onna, who, scarcely daring to raise her eyes, rejoices over the Child
I it}: tender bashfulness. The Infant, held by the mother with both hands,
azes straight out of the picture and possesses all the charming grace
rhich characterises Raphael‘s later representations of childrenJ—Spn'nger.

1 16. Sustsrmans, Portrait of Vittoria della Revere.
Banana. Italy 1. 12th Edit. 33 .

