106 Route 18. CABBARA. From Genoa

church of Sear‘ Alana, a Gothic structure of the 13th cent... with a due
facade and good sculptures. The church of the labours Dun Gnu: also
has sumptuous decorations in marble. ‘

The Iarble Quarries (Cave) ot‘ Garrara enjoy a worldwide tune.
The deposits of marble occur throughout almost the whole of the Apnea
Alps (see below), from the little river Aulells. on the N. to Pietrasanta
(p. 101) on the S. and Oastelnuovo di Garfagnana on the E. The quarries
in the valleys of Fmtacrim, Golconda, and form (see below) were
worked by the Romans, but after the dOanall of the West Roman Empire,
the ‘marmor Lunense‘ (so named from the seaport of Luna, p. 1(5) was
almost entirely forgotten. The building 0! the cathedral o! Pisa and the
churches of Lucca, Pistoja, and other neighbouring towns a tin created
a demand for Carrara marbfe; and the artistic activity ot‘ the -16th cent.
gave a renewed impulse to its use. The industry now grows steadily; in
1899 about 1800!) tons were exported from Carrara alone. About 600
quarries in all are in operation; of these 346, with Mm workmen, are at
Carrara. DO (700 men) at Macao (see below), and the rest at Set-mm, Retra-
sunta, Manama, and Arm'. There are 109 marble-sawing works at Carrara,
employing about 000 men, and 28 at Muse, with about 170 men. The best
and largest blocks ield the name stellar“. — The quarryrnen, who
receive a wage of 1- fr. per day, quit work at 3 or L p.m.

A visit to the quarries (2-3 hrs.; guide, not indispensable, 2-8 tr.) is
best made early in the morning, when the weather is warm. From the
‘ above-mentioned Piazza dell‘ Acoademia we follow the Via Santa laria to
the end of the town and ascend the valley along the left bank of the
Carrione. At (ll. )1.) a group of houses a path diverges to the right to
large quarries of inferior marble, but we continue to follow the road,
passing numerous marble cutting and polishing works. At the entrance
to the (1 M.) village of Toronto we turn to the right and climb the steep
lanes to the marble railway (see below), the metals of which we follow
in the narrow shadeless wland valley, passing numerous quarries, to (1 H.)
the station of Baum. 0 may push on to the highest station (small re-
staurant), but the ascent is fatiguing, and should be attempted only when
time is abundant. A horn is blown as a signal when the rock is about
to be blasted. The blocks of marble are carried away partly by means of
ox-waggons, partly by means of a railway (Fen-onto Nomi/era), which
sends branches into several of the lateral valleys. Visitors are sometimes
allowed to ride in the trains; the tunnels are very cold.

761/2 M. Hana (195 ft.; H6“! Massa, with garden, Alb. Giappone,
both very fair; omn. from the station to the town and to Curran),
formerly the capital of the Duchy of Massa-Carrara, with 10,000 in-
hab., is pleasantly situated amidst marble-yielding hills, and enjoys
a mild climate. The handsome Palazso Ducale (1701; now the
prefecture), with its ﬁne court, was a summer—residence of Napo-
leon’s sister Elisa Baciocchi (p. 416). The loftily situated Costello,
now a prison, commands a splendid view (permesso at the prefecture).
— Narrow-gauge railway to the Marina d’Avenza (p. 105).

Country fertile and well cultivated. The picturesque ruined
castle of Montignoso occupies an abrupt hill to the left. —- 801/, M .
Seravcsza, an agreeable summer-resort, with large marble-quarries,
lies 2 M. to the N.E. of the station.

Serravezzs is the starting-point for the exploration of the 8. portion
of the Alpi Apuane, the S.W. chain of the Central Apenninee, remarkable
for the bold shapes of its peaks. Near the centre of the mountains, above
the village of Starzéma (Locanda del Proctncto), noted for its marble-
qunrries, lie the Albergo Alpine (2295 (L), on the S.W. slope of the Home
Panda (6100 (L), the Alb. del Hatanna, in Palagnana, and a dependence of
the latter on the Prali dt‘ Han d‘Orrina (3412 ft.), all three much {requentecl

