332 VI. THE EMILIA.

Caesar, although the Roman language and customs had spread rapidly here,
the district was officially known as the ‘Province of Gaul on this side of
the Po‘, and the Rubicon formed the frontier of Italy; but in 3.0. 43 it
was ﬁnally united with the latter.

The institutions of antiquity lin ered here longer than in any other
art of Italy. In 402 the Emperor onorius transferred his residence to
avenna, which also continued to be the capital of the Gothic kings.

After the overthrow of Gothic domination by Belisamu in 539, Rsvenm
became the seat of the Exarehs, and the Italian centre of the Eastern
Roman Empire. The Lombard: afterwards attacked and took possession
of it, but it was soon wrested from them by the Frankish king Pepin,
who is said to have presented the whole exarchate, Le. the coast-district
from the P0 to Ancona, to the Romish Church in 755. At first, however,
the real supremacy over the district was held by the Archbishop of Rs-
vcnna. The Srsras or run Cannon never constituted a uniform whole
like those of Milan or Venice. They consisted of a number of towns,
principalities, and monasteries, often estranged from the pontiilcsl throne,
and not unfrequently in arms against it. The pope appointed cardinals as
his legates in the different districts, but their power was limited. since the
most important prerogatives were usurped by his subjects. Meanwhile
the Towns in the Emilia prospered greatly, and became famous as cradle!
of Scmnca, notwithstanding the feud between Guelphs and Ghibellines,
princes, nobles, and burghers, which raged within and without their walls.
Roman Law, which after the Germanic invasion had been preserved in
several towns and districts, began to be studied scientiﬁcally at Raverma
'in the 11th century. From the 12th cent. onwards, owing to the unsettled
condition of rights, the study became very prevalent, Bologna being it:
great centre, whence a knowledge of Roman Law gradually extended over
the other countries of Europe (comp. p. 364).

The Potiucst‘ Huron? of these districts during the middle ages re-
cords continual struggles for precedence among several rival powers. A!
long as the power of the emperors was in the ascendnnt, they kept the
pretensions of the popes in check. Nicholas II]. was the ﬁrst popstd
obtain control of the entire Romagna (in 1278). During the exile of the
popes at Avignon, the dismemberment of the papal dominions seemed
imminent, but after protracted combats it was prevented by Cardinal d’Al-
bomoz, a valiant Spaniard who was sent to Italy by Innocent IV. in 1353.
Even those princes, however, who consented to acknowledge the papal
supremacy, still continued practically independent. It is difﬁcult to all
how often the stubborn citizens of Bologna were subdued by the pop“,
only to rise again in successful revolt. Alexander 71. and his son (Juan
Borgia at length put an end to this insubordination about M99; the!
.extirpsted the dynasties of the Romagns with ﬁre and sword, and from
that period the papal llefs began to be gradually converted into a state
in the modern sense. Under Julius 11. and Leo X. the pa al supremscl
,was farther extended to Modena, Puma, and Piacenza. In 545 Paul II].
.Famess invested Pier Luigi, his natural son, with the last two as a duchy-
which, on the extinction of the Farnese in 1731, came into the possession
of the Spanish Bout-bans. In Modsna and Reggio, the house of Esta main-
tained its supremacy in spite of the papal pretensions, while Ferrari in
15?! was incorporated with the States of the Church.

The whole of the existing institutions were at length overthrown bl
the French Revolution. NAPOLEON united Permit to France, and annexed
Modena and the Romagna to his kingdom of Italy. Though thus under
foreign domination, the country now enjoyed a period of active and useful
internal reform, which, however, was rudely interrupted by the fall of
Napoleon and the establishment of Austrian supremacy over these districts-
Parma was awarded to Marie Louise, and Modena to Archduke hands, the
heir of the last Este (who died in 1803 with the title of Duke of Breisglul
The worst lot betel the Romagns, in spite of the entreaty addressed bi
its ambassadors at the Congress of Vienna, rather to hand over their
country to an ‘infernsl than to the papal overnment’. By an edict of will
August, 1814, no fewer than 1824 dissolv monasteries and 612 nurseries

