Archeologico. FLORENCE. 5.9. Route. 485

woman (with gold ornaments), the other with it man and a winged Parent
between, chair with urn and table of bronze, vases, etc., from a war-
rior‘s tomb.

Boom VII. Vasss non CLuewn. The vases of black clay (bucehero)
are of native manufacture (com . the Room of the Bucchero Vases on
the 1st floor), those with painte figures are mostly importetions from
Greece. -— We return to B. V and ass thence to the left into —

Room VIII. Luna (Lum‘; p. l I. By the side-wail, remains of three
temple pediments in terracotta (to the right and in the centre, groups of
gods; to the left. Destruction of the Niobide), of the 2nd cent. 3.0.

Room IX. anmr (cum Casteﬂana). To the right, archaic vases
and hronees down to the 61h cent. 3.0.; to the left, of the ith and
3rd cent. 3.0. — The corridor lends tn the left to —

Room X. Tuscan; (Toscanella). Sereophagns-tlgures. By the en-
trance: tomb-statue of a woman.

Room XI. Visas-rm (Baroda). Vases and bronsss.

Room Ill. Tension ( Tulamom). Opposite the entrance, remains ofa
tem le-pediment of terracotta (Amphiaraus and Adrastus). In the middle,
goo replica of an archaic statuette of Artemis at Naples (east to the left).
— We return through 12.. IX to ~-

Room XIII. annnm (Canada). By the walls, slabs with reliefs
resembling metal-work. — In the middle. sarcophagus, with banquets on
the sides and enii on the ends.

Room XI . Vunox. In the middle, sculptures from the tombs of
Vulci. -— Left end: remains of a terracotta ediment, with a relief of
Dionysus and Ariadne (comp. the urn to the eft). — In the wall-cases:
remains from other necropoies in the district of Vulci. — We now pass
through the small court into the large court.

Court XV. Fnonas-ru. Relics of the Roman Florence (from temples,
thermal, streets, and gates).

Room XVI has other remains of the thermm of Florence.

Room XVII. FLonIn-ru-Fstsnna. Cinerary urns, cippi, and stolen
from the earliest days of Florence (Italic) and Fiesoie (Etruscan). °

0n the Flu! FLooa to the left is the Egyptian Collection, to the right
the older portion of the Etruscan Museum (founded 1871).

Egyptian Museum. I. HALL or Till Guns. At the door, Small ensigns,
used in battle; small votive pyramid (15th cent. 13.0.). — Entrance-wall:
Musnmies of ibises, hawks, and cats; images of sacred animals. In the
other cases are statuettes of gods amulets, scarabel, etc. — By the 2nd
window is a table for votive gifts to the dead. — In the centre: the
Goddess Hathor suckling King Horemheb. a statue from Thebes (15th cent.
3.0.), found near Santa Maria sopra Minerva at Rome. To the left of the
exit, mummy of an ape; to the right, fragment of a statue of the god Bes,
in limestone.

II. HALL or Inscnrr‘rmxs. To the left, by the walls: Sepulchral
reliefs from the ancient empire. Porphyry bust fragment of a colossal
statue of a king (ca. 3800 n.0,). Under glass: Wooden stutuettes of two
female slaves making bread (Memphis, ca. 3300 3.0.). Beside the eolumne:
Statues of the high-priest Ptnhmes from Memphis (15th cent. B.C.), the
first in quanite. — In the centre: Limestone sarcophagus and various
remains of frescoes. By the walls. Bepuichrai reliefs end inscriptions
(16th to 6th cent. 3.0.); in the case by the entrance-wail, reliefs with re-
presentations of animals and the statue of a deceased women (ca. 16008.0);
on the opposite wail: I‘zuncral rites (14th cent. 13.0.); Artisans (16th cent.
13.0.); Seti I. receiving the necklace from the goddess Hathor, a large
coloured relief in limestone (15th cent. 11.0.); Coloured relief of Me, the
goddess of truth; fragment of a relief, with four scribes (16th cent. B.C.).
-— In the case by the window: Fresco from a tomb at Thebes (16th cent.
13.0.), representing two Asiatic princes bringing tribute of gold and ivory.
—— At the door (right), the minister Uahabra, fragment of a statue from
Sal's (6th cent. 3.0.; found near Santa Maria so ra Minerva at Rome).

III. Lanna HALL 0r sir-nines. By the win raw-wall, to the left, case

