dd Duomo. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 451

born‘, the son of Lorne (145262); above is the Beheadlng of John the Bap-
tist a Vine. Dnnti, 1571.

e Sacosn Doox (IL) was executed in “0321 by Lorena Ghiberu,
after a competition in which his designs were preferred to those of Jacopo
della Quercia Niccolo d‘Arezzo. and Brunelleschi (comp. p. A74). Dona-
tello and Michelozzo were among his assistants in makin the castings.
The reliefs represent in 28 sections the history of Christ. hey are quite
equal to those of Andrea Pisano in clearness of arrangement, nobility of
outline, and tenderness of conception, while they surpass them in richness
of picturesque life and in the harmony and variety of movement and ex-
pression in the individual ﬁgures. The technical execution is simply
perfect. The ﬁgure of St. John the Evangelist is the grandest in the
series. Above the door, the ‘Preaching of St. John by Fr. Euclid, 1511
(supposed to have been assisted by Leonardo da Vinci).

The ‘Tamn Dooa, facing the cathedral, also executed by Lorenzo GM-
bsrti (11126-52). is considered a marvel of art. It represents ten diil'erent
scenes from Scripture history: (l.) 1. Creation and Expulsion from Para-
dise; (r.) 2. Cain slaying his brother and Adam tilling the earth; 3.
Noah after the Flood, and his intoxication; t. Abraham and the angels,
and Sacriﬁce of Isaact b. Esau and Jacob; 6. Joseph and his brethren; 7.
Promulgation of the Law on Mt. Sinai; 8. The Walls of Jericho; 9. Battle
against the Ammonites; 10. The Queen of Sheba. The artist has here
wittingly transgressed the limits of the plastic art and produced what
may be called a picture in bronze, but he has notwithstanding shed such
a ﬂood of loveliness over his creation that Michael Angelo pronounced
this door worthy of forming the entrance to Paradise. The beautiful
bronne borders are also by amen-u, who has introduced his own portrait
in the central band (the man with the bald head, to the left, fourth from
the top). Over the door the ‘Baptism of Christ, by Andrea Samom‘no, 1502
(com leted by Vina. Dan“). the angel by Spinaui (18th cent.).

’Fhe whole arrangement of the ‘Interior shows that its builder was
well acquainted with ancient forms, and suggests the inﬂuence of the
Pantheon at Rome. In front of each of the eight niches below stand two
columns of Oriental granite with gilded ca itals. Above is a gallery with
Corinthian pilasters and double windows. he boldly soaring dome, 90 ft.
in diameter, aﬂ'orded Brnnelleschi a model for that of the cathedral (p. ‘52).
The choir-niche is adorned with mosaics by Fro Jacopo (1225—28), a com-
panion of St. Francis of Assisi, and the dome with others by Andrea To)!
(d. after 1320), Apallom‘o Green, and others. The mosaics, which are not
distinguishable except on very bright days, have been frequently restored.
The organ is a work of the celebrated musician, Ant. Squaret'alupi (1478).
On the pavement are an early niello, with the aodiac and inscriptions,
and mosaics with ornaments (1200). The font is enriched with Pisan reliefs
of 1371. To the right of the high-altar is the tomb (frequently imitated)
of Pope John XXIII. (0. this), who was deposed by the Council of Con-
stance, erected by Cosimo de‘ Medici; the recumbent bronze status by
Donatello, the ﬁgures of the three Virtues by thielouo. On an altar to
the left of Andrea Pisano‘s door is a statue of Mary Magdalen in wood, by
Donatello, unpleasantly realistic in eﬁ‘eet.

Opposite the N. side of the Baptistery is a column of speckled
marble (cipollino), called the Colonno di San Zombi, erected to
commemorate the removal of the relics of St. Zenobius in 1330.
—— To' the W. of the Baptistery, at the corner of the Via do” Gerretani
(p. 497), is the Pot. Arcivescovile (Pi. E, 4) or palace 01' the arch-
bishop, with a ﬁne court by G. A. Dosio (1573). At the back, to-
wards the Piazza dell‘ 0110, is the early Tuscan facade of the small
church of San Salvatore.

The ’Oathedral (P1. F, 4), It Duomo, or La Cattedrale di Santa
Maria del Fiore, so called from the lily which ﬁgures in the arms

29 "

