290 Route 42. VENICE. b. Academy.

Madonna (retouched); *594. Madonna in a beautiful landscape. Also,
582. Jacopo Bellini, Madonna (restored). — We return to R. XVII.
and thence enter —

RooM XIX. 624. Alvise Vivarini (‘2), Annunciation. Bust of Card.
Scipione Borghese (1633), by Btrm’m’. —- We return through the
Vestibule (p. 289) and descend the stairs to the left to —

Room XX (della Presentazione), with carved wooden ceiling
decorations of the 15th century.

0n the exit-wall, '626. Titian, Presentation in the Temple,
painted in 1538 for this room, then the Sala dell’ Albergo of the
Brotherhood della Carita (damaged).

'It was in the nature of Titian to re resent a subject like this as
a domestic pageant of his own time, an seen in this light it is ex-
ceedingly touching and surprisingly beautiful. Mary in a. dress of celesti-
sl blue ascends the steps of the temple' 1n 9. halo of radiance. She pauses
on the ﬁrst landing place, and gathers her skirts, to ascend to the sec-
ond. .Unitiug the majestic lines of a composition perfect in the bal-
ance oi‘ its masses with an elfect unsurpassed in its contrasts of light
and shade, the genius of the master has laid the scene in palatial archi-
tecture of grand simplicity. . . . The harmony of the colours is so true
and ringing, and the chords are so subtle, that the eye takes in the scene
as if it were one of natural richness, unconscious of the means by which
that richness is attained. .In this gorgeous yet masculine and robust
realism Titian shows his great originality, and claims to be the nobles:
representative of the Venetian school of cblour‘. —— C J: C.

Titian (l), 245. Portrait of Jac. Soranzo, 314. John the Baptist
in the Wilderness; ‘626. Am. Viva‘rini and Giov. Alemarmo, Ma-
donna enthroned, with angf‘ls and the four Fathers of the Church
(1446), a masterpiece of the early Venetian school and also inter-
esting on account of the peculiar architecture.

Adjoining the Academy on the left is the Beale latituto di
Belle Arti. To the left of the ﬁrst court is a second, with the
inner 'Facade of Palladio’s unﬁnished Convent of Caritd (1561),
enthusiastically described by Goethe.

0. Canal Grands.

The ”Grand Canal, or Canaluuo, the main artery of the trafﬁc
of Venice, fully 2 M. in length, with an average width of 75 yds.
and a depth of 16 ft., intersects the city from N.W. to S.E., and
resembles an inverted S in shape. It is crossed by three bridges.
the Pants di Ferro (Pl. E, 6), the Panic dl Rialto (Pl. G, 4), and
the Panic alla Stasiom (Pl. D, 3), while small steamers and hun-
dreds of gondolas and other craft are seen gliding in every direction.
Handsome houses and magniﬁcent palaces rise on the banks, for
this is the street of the Nobili, the ancient aristocracy of Venice.
A trip on the canal is extremely interesting; 3/4 hr. at least should
be devoted to it in order to obtain a glimpse of the principal palaces.
The gondolier points out the chief ediﬁces; comp. also the Album
by Ongcmia (1 fr.; p. 263). The posts (pali) display the heraldk
colours of their owners. The following list begins at the Piazzetta.

