220 - VENETIA.

used by men of letters, as for example by Goldoni in his comedies, and
is the softest of all the Italian dialects, the ﬂattening and elision of the
consonants being very common. Thus nevods {or nipote, war for radar:
logo for foam, u'or for signers. Another characteristic is the conversion oi
y into 2, as tents for genie, some for piano, motors for magpie”.

The history of the country has always been inﬂuenced by the proximity
of the sea and the peculiar formation of the coast. In the lower part of
its course the Po diﬁ‘ers widely in character from all the other rivers in
Europe. Its fall is very gradual, being {or a considerable distance 2%
inches only, and latterly little more than 1/4 inch per English mile. T0-
wards the end of its course, moreover, it receives its most important
tributaries. The result is that the adjacent districts are much exposed to
inundations, a danger which has to be averted by the construction of huge
dykes; and these works frequently require to be raised, as the bed of the
river is constantly rising. The P0, together with the Taah'amento, Mama,
Have, Brenta, Adios, and other coast-rivers, terminates in a vast delta which
extends along the whole coast of Venetia. The quantity of alluvial deposit
is so great, that the coast-district between Tagliamento and Ravenna alone
was increased by about 295 sq. M. in the course of the 19th century. From
the same cause the beds of the streams are continually undergoing change
and subdivision. Thus the ancient seaport of Bahia now lies 151/111. from
the coast, and while the Po formerly ﬂowed towards the 5., it has formed
its present embouchure since 1150. The extensive lagoons (lawns), sep-
arated from the sea by narrow strips of land (ltdi), and connected with it
by outlets would render the whole coast uninhabitable in summer, were
it not for the ebb and ﬂow of the tide, which distinguishes the Adriatic from
other parts of the Mediterranean (comp. p. 270), and prevents malarial]!
exhalations. This extensive alluvial territory, which reminds one of
Holland, called into activity the ingenuity and enterprise of its inhabits“
at an early period and a temperate and conservative character has 11““
been imparted to their history.

The Venéti, a branch of the Illyrian stock, kept entirely sleet

from the immigrating Celtic tribes. The seaports of Rubia and Spica.
at the mouths of the Po, carried on a considerable trade at an early
period, and several canals on a large scale were constructed as early
as B. C. 380. In the 3rd cent. the Veneti, together with the animal,
a. Celtic tribe which occupied Brescia and Verona, entered into an
alliance with Rome. While the Romanisation of Lombardy and Pied-
mont was attended with violent struggles, it was rapidly ell‘ected here
without ogposition. The Roman colony of Aquilet'a was founded as early
as 181 B. ., and the boundary of Italy was thus laid down at the point
to which it still extends. Owing to its industries, cattle-breeding, and
agriculture, Venetia prospered greatly under the emperors. Padua was
the wealthiest town in Italy next to Rome, and was rivalled in W. Eu-
rope by Cadiz alone, as it numbered during the reign of Augustus no
fewer than 500 citizens of knightly fortune (i. e. upwards of about 4500!):
The city was afterwards destroyed by Attila, and a similar fate betel
Allinum, a prosperous commercial town in the Lagoons, and Aquatic,
which in ancient times was of a similar importance to the modern Trieste.
The inhabitants of these coast-towns sought refuge from their conquerors
in the islands of the Lagoons, where they founded Heracles, Grada (Aqus‘kt'a
Nova), anrle, Torcello, Burano, Murano Malamocco, Pellestn'na. Maggot.
and other places. The Lombards (p. 116) were repulsed with aid iron
the Byzantine emperors; but in the following century the necessity at I
closer union for mutual support led to the establishment of a confedergte
state. In 697 Paulucs‘us Ana/emu (d. 716) was elected the ﬁrst Duo or Dog:
of this naval union, while Heraclea was chosen as the seat of government.
In 707, however, the latter was transferred to Malamocco. Removed from
Teutonic inﬂuences, and under the protection of the Byzantine Empire,-
the most famous of medioeval states took its rise here from a arently in-
signiﬁcant beginnings. In 809 the islands repulsed an attack 0 ins Pepin,
the son of Charlemagne, but on the capture of Malamocco the inhabitants
were crowded together in the islands of Mooauo and Torullo.

