356 Route 50. FERRARA. . Costello.

onl as Duke of Modena and Reggio Ferraro. and Comacchio having been
clahned by Pope Clement VIII. in 1597 as vacant iiefs. In the history at
art and science the renown of the House of Este is immortal.

‘Whoe‘er in italy is known to fame

This lordly House as frequent guest can claim.’

, The art of Painting wee liberally patronised at Ferraro, as st all the
other Italian courts, but the Ferrerese painters did not succeed in main-
taining full independence. In the 15th century they were chieﬂy inﬂu-
enced by the Paduen school and by Piero della Francesca of Umbris.
This double inﬂuence is shown in the ease of Cosimo No (132-1195).
of Francesco Conn (d. at Bologna in 1480),, whose easel—paintings are fre-
quently crude and angular, and of Erwlc de‘ Roberts‘ (d. 1496). the most
eminent of the early-Renaissance painters of Ferraro next to Tun. The
chief works of this period are the frescoes in the Poluzo Schifenojl
(p. 358). — Lorenzo Costa (1W1535; comp. p. 236), another Ferrarese
master, left his home in his youth and came into intimate relations of
action and reaction with Francesco Francis. the chief master of the Bolog-
ncse school (comp. p. 365). The other great masters of the 16th cent. also
owed much to external sources. At their head stands Dom Dom (ca. 1479-
1642), who shows the inﬂuence of Ariosto in his poetically conceived genre
works and of Giorgione in his landscapes. — Bemmmto M (1481-1559),
usually known as Gardfalo from his birthplace, long associated with
Dossi, is best represented in the galleries of Rome. The attempts of this
somewhat prosaic master to‘rival the idealistic conceptions of Baphul
resulted disastrously. The productions of his later period, such as those
in the Pal. de‘ Diamanti (p. 359), though of great technical perfection,
become tedious through the insipid sweetness and empty conventions“!!!
of the heads. — Ludovico Hazzoh‘no (1481-1530) is known for his ﬁery red
colouring, but sinks into insigniﬁcance when compared with his great
contemporaries. — Cmegoio (p. 341) received his 'ﬁrst artistic training in
the school of Ferrara. — The Princes of Este, especially Isabella d‘Este
who married a Duke of Mantua (p. 236), were eager collectors of the worb
of Raphael and Leonardo da Vinci. Titian also occasionally resided at
Ferrsra, where he painted three Buchanalian scenes (now in London and
Madrid) for Alphonso I.

We approach the town from the station by the broad VIsLs
Csvonn (Pl. B, O, D, 2-4), which is shaded by plane-trees. — At
the end of this street rises the —

'Oaltello (Pl. D, 4), an ancient and picturesque ediﬁce with
four towers, surrounded by a most. It was built after 1385 by Bare
tolino da Novara. for Niccolo II., and partly restored after a ﬁre in
1554, and is now occupied by the prefect and other local authorities.
The custodian is to be found at the S.W. entrance (ring at the iron
gate to the right; fee i[2-1 fr.) The Sula del Consiglio and the ed-
jacent Gala di Napoli, in the apartments of the prefecture, contain
frescoes of the school of Dosso Dossi, representing wrestling-matches
of the ancient palmstrc. The Sula dell’ Aurora (said to be Eleonors's
room) contains a ﬁne 'Frieze with children (‘putti'). Adjacent is a
cabinet with three Bacchanalia by followers of Gardfala.

The custodian shows also a dungeon at the base of the ‘lion tower‘,
where the Alla-prune Nicholas III. conﬁned his faithless wife Paw
”atomic and his natural son Hugo, her paramour, before beheading them
(May 21st 1425). Lord Byron in his poem of ‘Parisinc‘ substitutes the
nine of A50 for Nicholas as being more metrical. Visitors also'see the

mm“ in which Alphonso I. conﬁned for life his brother Julius and the
nce Ferrante d‘Este after their conspiracy in 1508.

In the small Pisz‘za Torqueto Tessa, to the W. of the castle,

