178 Route 28. PALLANZA. Logo Maggiore.

view of them, and of the lake as far as the snow-covered Swiss Alps
(Mischabel, Fletschhorn). As the most sheltered and warmest spot
on the Logo Maggiore, it enjoys a repute as a winter—resort, espe-
cially as an intermediate stage between the Riviera and more
northerly climes. Opposite the quay is the market-place (Piazza
Garibaldi), with the Municipio, a monument to Carlo Cadorna (by
Trubetzkoi; 1895), and the church of San Leonardo (16th cent).
The road to the right leads past the villas Mclzi d’ Erile and Bi/‘ﬁ and
the interesting nursery—gardens of Rovelli (left) to the Panic Casta—
gnola, and thence, passing the villas of Messthorf, Kaupe, and San
Remigio, to Intra (p. 176). The old church of San Remigio stands
by the lake, near the villa of the same name.

In the street running inland from the church of S. Leonardo is the
large Penitenziario (1854), and at the end of the town is the church
of Santa Stefano, with a Roman inscription built into the wall to the
left of the portal. -— To the E. of this point, on the direct road to
San Remigio, lies a Jesuit College, built in 1900.

The broad Viale Principe Umberto leads straight N. from the
town, past the bathing-establishment of Capra-a (alkaline spring),
to the ('/4 hr.) domed church of the Madonna di Campagna, contain-
ing frescoes by Gaud. Ferrari (dome) and the Procaccini (choir and
chapels). The church lies at the foot of the Monte Rosso (2270 ft;
view), which is ascended from the Trobaso road (see below) in
11/2 hr., by a new winding carriage-route. Small restaurant at
the top (beautiful view).

CIRCUIT or run Morn-n Rosso (3'I2-d hrs). We proceed straight on
from the Madonna di Campagna to the (1/4 hr.) Otter-fa dd Pluu, where
we cross the San Bernardino (p. 176:, footpath ascends on the left bank);
20 min. Intra road; 6min. Trobaso; we turn to the left in the village,
in 12 min. the road forks, the right branch leading to Unchio (see below).
the left (yellow way-marks) recrossing the San Bernardino by a ﬁne bridge
1]. hr. Santino, beyond which the route is in poor condition; 1]; hr. Bieno
then by a steep and stony path to (1/2 hr.) Cavandone, passing by the pil
grimagc-church below the village; the lake soon comes into view one
more; 1% hr. Sana (see below). — By following the right arm of th
road (blICR way-marks) beyond Trobaso (see above) to (1/4 hr.) Unchio anu
(40 min.) Gouogno (Alb. Cossogno) and then taking the ‘Via Solferino‘ (1
the left), we soon reach (stony path) the (1/4 hr.) Roman Bridge over 111
romantic gorge of the San Bernardino. Paths with steps lead hence t
(1/4 hr.) the church of Rovegro. To reach the village we turn to the righx
In the village we turn to the left and then follow a stony path along th
ridge in the direction of Santino (see above) and ﬁnally ascend to the rig!
to Bieno (see above).

The ascent of the ‘Monts Zeda (7075 ft.; 8hrs.; green way-marks)
interesting. The road leads vii Trobaso (see above; turn to the right i
the village). Cambiasca (990 ft.), and Camera to the mountain-village ‘
Miazzfna (236313.; Bistor. Principessa Elena), whence a sunny footpat
ascends to the (3 hrs.) Pian Cam-Ilene (510.0 ft.; Alb. Nnvn, plain, 2013655
Making an early start next morning, we proceed vii the Pine Alarm
(8725 ft.) to the (2 hrs.) sun mit, which commands a wide view.

Comp. also the excursions from Intra (p. 177) and from Laveno (p. 17(

To the W. of Pallanza the road leads along the lake to (1 M
Suns (B; *Park Hotel at Pension Suna, with garden, Eli/2, B. 11/

