East Quarters. RAVENNA. 53. Route. 393

On the left, the sayings and miracles of Christ (without a heard); on the
right, the history of the Passion from the Last Supper to the Resurrection
(Christ with a heard). The omission of the Cruciﬁxion itself points to
the origin of these mosaics at an early period when representations of the
kind were sbhorred. — The last chapel (Cappella dolls mucus.) on the
left. in which the marble lining of the walls still remains, contains an
ancient marble episcopal throne, broken marble screens which belonged
to the ambo of the nave, and on the wall a portrait of Justinian in mosaic,
restored in 1863. At the altar are four porphyry columns from the ancient
ciborium.

At the corner of the Via Alberoni, a few paces to the S. of
S. Apollinare Nuovo, some remains of the Palace of Theodorio
(P1. 39; E, 5) are still extant, unless indeed, as is possible, these
date from an addition erected in the time of the exsrchs.

The remains include a narrow i‘agade with round-arched blind arcades
and with a central niche (cxedra) in the upper story (disengaged in 1898
and at the same time freely restored), a colonnade in two stories, the
bases of two round towers, etc. (key kept by the sacristan of 8. A ollinare;
fee 83600.). - The palace was plundered by Belisarius in 58 , and in
784 its treasures of art and most of its columns were removed to six-ls-
Chapelle by Charlemagne. The nlace and its gardens extended E. to the
Viale Pallavicino, and down toi the sea arl'nined it at the back. The
massive principal tower was standing until i 5.

Still farther to the S. is Santa Maria. in Pom(Pl. F, 6) erected
in 1553 from the remnants of San Lorenzo in Cesares (p. 3gb), and
restored in 1895-96. The heads dates from 1784. The church
consists of nave and aisles with transept and sn octagonal dome,
the roof borne by columns and pillars placed alternately. The choir
contains an ancient vase in porphyry. In the N. transept is a By-
zantine marble relief of the Virgin (8th cent. ‘1). — The adjacent
Monastery, now a barrack, has two handsome Renaissance cloisters
(16th cent.). —- In the Ippodromo, behind the church, a fragment
of the town-wall (6th cent.) is preserved.

About 1/2 M. to the E. of the Porta Sen-eta (Pl. D, E, 1 ; p. 392),
. beyond the railway, is the *Hausoleum of Theodorio the Great
(Pl. G, 1; ice 30-50 0.), or Santa Maria delta Rotonda, as it was
called after the remains of the heretic were scattered and the church
became a Roman Cstholic place of worship. In the middle ages it
was the church of the adjoining Benedictine monastery and the
Pantheon of Revenue, but it was disengaged again from the sur~
rounding buildings in 1719. Probably erected by Theodoric him-
self (about 520), it is a two-storied structure of decagonal shape in
the style of the ancient Roman tombs, and the ﬂat dome, 36 ft. in
diameter, consists of a single huge block of Istrisn rock, which is
said to weigh 470 tons. Some remains of the colonnade which
encircled the somewhat retreating upper story are now preserved
in the interior. The substructure long lay half under water; the
upper part is approached by a double staircase of marble (1774).

About 2 M. to the N.E. of the rail. station, on the Comic Cor-
sini (p. 385) and at the beginning of the Pinata (p. 395), is the
Cimitero Monumentale, laid out since 1879 (tine monuments).

