to Florence. BAGNI DI LUGCA. 57. Route. 423

Posts dslla Maddalena or fonts dd Ddaoolo, which is said to have been
built in 1822 by Cutrnceio. The line now enters the valley of the Lima.
— 16 )1. Bay»! di Lucas.

The Bscnidi Laces. (season, May let to Sept. lbth), which were known
as early as the 10th cent. under the name of the ‘Bsths of Cursens‘, with
springs vsrying in temperature from 98° to 130° Fehr., consist of several
ditl'erent villages in the valley of the Lima. They are much frequented
by English and American visitors. Fonts s. Benaglto (ea. 4.10 ft.), the
chief of these villages. is picturesquely situated on the bend of the rivulet.
Here are 'Pagm'nfs Halal d‘Europs st d‘AmtrI'qus, ‘I’sra‘s Halal New York,
and the Grand Hotel dos Balm dc Lucques, with little diﬂ‘erence in their
chutes (chenper in Sept), the cm: Pasta and Italia, in the Pinzu del
Ponte; the best Baths}- n Casino, with billiard and ball‘rooms; and the Post
Ofﬁce. Good furnished apartments, csrringee, and donkeys may be had,
but the shops are poor. Physician, Dr. Mnrchl. -- Adjoini the Elite!
Pngnini, on the Lima, is the ro a1 Casino Bidet“, built in i .

Beautiful avenues necend unlly from Ponte n Seneglio to (i M.) Villa
(on. some; um. Vittoria: ‘ at. «its Pare, pens. 68 in; Haul Continental:
HM. du Pavilion; 110:. Queen Victoria, all with gardens; English chemist),
where are the best and quietest n nrtments ( lessentest on the river-side
of the msln street) the English harsh (serv ces in summer nt 10.&)& 5,
conducted by the English chaplain from Piss, p. ‘04). and a. Casino (with
reading and hall-rooms, concerts, etc.), and to ('/4 M.) Bagnl Oddi Parana
Hotel «in ﬂop-ma, formerly the chiteau of the Grand-Duke of Tuscany,
pens. 6-8 fr.). The mud-baths of Bngni Caldi nre eitlcacious in rheumatism
and gout; and there is s. grotto with s. unturnl vapour bath, The freedom
from dust, glare, and excessive heat makes this a delighlful summer-resort.
—- To the baths of Luccn belong else the establishments of Berna» (named
after In inhabitant of Pistojn cured here in the 16th cent.), Docce Barre,
and San Giovannt.

The valley of the Lime is cool and well-shaded, chieﬂy with chest-
nut-trees, Iﬂ'ording pleasant wnlks. Only the paths between Ponte a
Serrnglio and Villa. and Bsgni Caldi are provided with benches. There
are footpaths on both banks of the stream as in as the suspension-bridge
st Fomli. Beautiful excursions may also be taken among the mountains,
vuch u to the village of bugliano, to Benabbdo (with an old castle , and
o the top of the Mauls Prato Home (4280 ft.). — Boswlungo (p. ) may
)e reached hence in about 6 hrs. (can. and pair £045 (L, including an
-xtru horse u the hill). — For excursions in the Apuau Alps, see p. iO'l.

Railway rom Lucca to (16% M.) Viaregglo, see p. 1(8.

The RAILWAY TO sz'rou at ﬁrst traverses the plain to the E.,
hen it turns to the N. at (23 M.) Altopascio and runs through a
ertile undulating district to the broad plain of the Peseta. Fine
iew, on the left, of the Alpi Apuane; in the distance to the right
‘so the hills of Montecstini and Monsummano.

291/, M. Poscis. (200 ft.; Pasta), a town with 17,805 inhsb., lies
1/2 M. to the N., on the river of that name, in a beautiful district,
ith silk and paper manufacturies. The Cathedral (restored in 1893)
as remains of a facade of 1306, a 13th cent. pulpit, and the ﬁne
onument of Baldsssare Turinl (d. 1540) by Raffaello da Monte-
ipo. — We cross the Pescia and skirt the S. base of the Apen-
nes. 31 M. 30790 a Buggirmo.

331/2 M. Bngni di Honteentini (98 ft.; *Grand [16th de la
nit; 'Locanda Maggiore; Continental; Corona d’ltalia; Italia;
1b. Torretta, Gabbn'clli, second-class; numerous pensions), a fre-
Lented health-resort in the valley of the Nievole, with'thennal

