v11. TUSCANY. 399

was by far the most important of the Tuscan cities, and while the citi-
zens were commemorating their victories by the erection of imposing
buildings, Florence had hardly begun to exist. Plorence was ﬁrst indebted
for its progress to the fact that it lay on the great route from the north
to Rome, and commanded the passage of the Arno. Under 0tho the
Great many German knights settled here, and at a later period several
noble families traced their origin from German ancestors. The enter-
prising citizens soon conquered the central and upper part of the valley
of the Arno, which the situation of their town enabled them to do, and
their arms were afterwards attended with farther successes. ‘While the
rest of Italy was gradually suffering dismemberment and throwing oﬂ' the
trammels of its earlier traditions, Florence was still quietly developing her
resources, and was thus soon enabled to take possession of the inheritance
of the earlier culture achieved by other towns. After her extensive
commerce had in a great measure raised her above the narrow aims of
her ancient life, she began to suffer. like the rest of Italy, from the
dissensions of a number of wild factions, but the more earnest character
of the citizens enabled them more eﬂ'ectually to grapple with these difil-
culties. Florence may be said to resemble a man of unusual strength,
whose physical development has been but tardy; and thus it was that
she became the mistress of Tuscany‘. (Leo). In 1350, among her other
sc uisitions, Florence gained possession of Praia, in 1351 of Pistoja, in
i of Pisa, in 14.10 of Cartona, and in 11124 of the harbour of Leghorn.
When at length the free constitutions of the greater part of Italy were
superseded by principalities, Florence did not escape the general fate,
but the change took place in the most favourable manner possible.
Among all the Italian dynasties by far the ﬁrst in rank was that of the
lodiei, not only owing to their muniiicent patronage of art and science,
let to their prudent administration, their endeavours to improve the
ower classes, and their care for agriculture, commerce, and the material
nterssts of their subjects. At a later period their example was followed
ly the princes of Lorraine and down to the present time Tuscany has
:njoyed the enviable lot of being the most enlightened and civilised, and
he best-governed 'state in Italy. The fact that Tuscany unreservedly
)srticipated in the national aspirations .for unity and freedom, and
'oluntarily recognised the hegemony of a comparatively distant and
msympathetic section of the Italian race, aﬁ'ords the strongest possible
-vidence of the earnestness of that remarkable revolution which led to
he unit of Italy.

in , with the aid of the arms of Emperor Charles V., the dynasty
f the Medici was ﬁrm] established in the sovereignty of Florence. The
vise Duke Cosimo I. ( 7-74) extended his dominions considerably, par-
icularly by the a uisition of Siena in 1667, which was ceded to him by
me emperor. In 1 9 he obtained from Pope Pius V., instead of the coveted
the of King, that of Grand Duke (grandma) of Florence. He abdicated
n favour of his son Francesca (1574-87). Francesco was succeeded by his
rather Ferdinand I. (1587-1609), who had previously been a cardinal.
haimn 11. (1609-21) the son of the latter, Ferdinand 11. (1621-70), and
‘an’mo 111. (1670-1753) were the next princes. With Giovanni Gaston, who
ied in 1737, the house of Medici became extinct. In the wars between
ustria and Spain, the two great powers to which ltaly was subject, Tus-
any formed one of the principal objects of contention, but eventually fell
)the share of the former. The emperor annexed the country as a vacant
cf, and conferred it on the husband of his daughter Maria Theresia, the
uke Francis Stephen of Lorraine (1737-65), who by the Peace of Vienna
.735) renounced his native principality of Lorraine in return. in 1745 he
acended the throne of Austria as Francis 1., and in 1763 established
uscany as an appanage of the second sons of the emperors, in order
) prevent its being governed in future as one of the immediate domin-
ms of Austria. He was succeeded in 1765 by the Grand Duke Leopold,
‘ho reigned on the same enlightened principles as his brother Joseph 11.,
nd was an active reformer in the administrative, judicial, educational,
id ecclesiastical departments. In consequence of the death of Joseph 11.

