h. Excursions. VENICE. 42. Route. 321

ﬁshing-town with 8074 inhab., the excursionists are taken to see
the interesting Royal school of lace-making (p. 263), which em-
ploys about 500 girls. The steamer then goes on to —

Torcello, which now belongs to Burano and consists of a few
small houses and two well-preserved churches. The ‘OATHEDBAL
or SANTA MARIA, founded in the 7th cent. and rebuilt in 864 and
(partly) 1008, is a basilica in the early-Christian style, supported
by columns.

lunaron. On the W. wall of the interior are six rows of mosaics of
the 12th cent., representing the Sacriﬁce of Christ, the Resurrection, Last
Judgment, etc., recently restored. At the reading-desk and on the pulpit-
steps are ornaments and ﬁgures in low relief. The principal object of in-
terest is the ancient arrangement of the semicircular seats of the priests
on the tribune (restored in 1890), rising in steps and commanded y the
lofty episcopal throne in the centre. Above, a Madonna and the Apostles
in Byzantine mosaic. Similar mosaics of Chris! and the Apostles, etc... in
the right apse. Below is an ancient Crypt with It font.

The ruins of an octagonal Barrlsraar of 1008 adjoin the cath-
edral. — The top of the CAMPANILB commands an admirable view of
the lagoons and the sea. — SANTA FosCA, built on a Byzantine
model and dating in its present form from the 12th cent., is ex-
ternally octagonal (interior intended for a dome, but at present
covered with a ﬂat roof) and is of interest for architects. 0n ﬁve
sides it is enclosed by an arcade supported by sixteen columns and
four corner- pillars. — The antiquities discovered in Torceilo have
been collected in two small Museums.

4. San Lazzaro, the Armenian Mechitarist monastery on the
island of the same name, 2 M. to the S. of Venice, contains a con-
siderable Oriental library, and a printing-ofﬁce (shown by a monk;
fee to the door-keeper). Byron studied Armenian here in 1816. On
the way to S. Lazzaro we pass the island San Seruolo, with the provin-
cial lunatic asylum (Manicomio). S. Lazzaro is more easily visited
from the Lido (gondola with one rower there and back 11/2 fr.,
bargaining necessary; advisable only when the tide is coming in).

5. A Tarr T0 Cmooora (181/2 M.; 2 hrs.) may be recommended
in clear weather. Steamers start 5-7 times daily (according to the
season) from the Ponte della Paglia (return-fare 11/2 or 3/4 fr.). —
The steamer passes the islands of S. Servolo and S. Lassaro (see
above) and touches at (5 M.) Malamocco (p. 318). At (71/2 M.)
Alberom‘ we approach the Channel of Malamocco (p. 270), which is
defended by two forts, and farther on we shirt the inner side of the
narrow Litter-ale di Pcllestrina. 101/2 M. San Pietro in Volta. Beyond
(11% M.) Pellestrina (Stabilimento Maddalena, a hotel with good
sea-baths) the Murazzi (comp. p. 270) lie to the left. Alittle farther
on we obtain a view, to the left, of the sea, enlivened with the
coloured sails of the numerous small craft of Chioggia.

181/2 M. Ohioggia (Alb. della, Luna, R. from 1%, pens. 5—6 fr.,
bargain advisable; Hot. Restaurant Gobbo), an ancient and pictur—

Barmannn. Italy 1. 12th Edit. 21 .

