South- West Quarters. RAVENNA. .53. Route. 387

Vrrronro Erumnzm: (Pl. D, 4), in the centre of the town. in front
of the Palauo Municipalc (P1. 30; built in 1681), in this piazza,
rise two lofty columns of granite erected by the Venetisns in 1483,
hearing statues of SS. Apollinaris and Vitalis (1640). Adjoining is
a colonnade of eight columns of granite, perhaps a fragment of the
church of Sant‘ Andrea dei Goti, built by Theodoric the Great and
pulled down in 1457. The king’s monogram is discernible on the
corner-column.

To the W. of this Piazza is the Piazza Vsnti Sctiembrc (Pl. 0, 4),
with a granite column, erected in 1609. — The Via Gioacohino
Rasponi leads hence to the S.W. to the PIAZZA mu. Duoato, in which
stand a granite column of 1605 and the -—

Cathedral (P1. C, 5) of Sant’ Ono, or Basilica Ursiana, built in
1734-44 on the site of a church founded by Bishop Ursus (d. 396).
The present building consists of nave and aisles with transept,

' surmounted by a dome above the croasing. The campanile and the

(inaccessible) crypt are the only relics of the ancient church.

Ina-anion. 2nd Chapel on the right: sarcophagus of SS. Exuperantius and
Haairnianus (6th cent.). in the S. Tuscan is the chapel of the Madonna
del Sudore, built in 1650-69 and containing two early-Christian marble
sarcophagi, said to be those of BS. Barbatian and Reginald. The Cuouc
contains a marble sarcophagus with the remains of nine bishops of early
date; to the right the roca di Bant‘ Agnello, a silver cross of the 6th
cent. (fro ucntly restored), with ﬁgures of 87 bishops and 3 arehbishops
(the rolls s in the centre of the 16th cent). At the sides, choir-screen panels
of the 5th cent. have been let into the floor. — In the Annunsronr, on each
side, are several marble slabs with ﬁgures of animals, birds, and ﬁshes,
dating from the 6th ccnt., being fragments of a puigit (‘ambo‘) erected by
Archbisho Agnellus (560-569), with the inscription ‘ ervus Christi Agnellus
episco us unc pyrgum fecit‘. — The Saenrsr! contains an Easter Calendar
from &‘2 to 626, and the so—called ‘ Throne of Archbishop Maﬁmian (546—552),
which, however, is more probably a throne presented by Pietro (lrseoio,
be e of Venice, to the Emp. Otho III. and brought by the latter to Revenue
in 001 (comp. p. 386. The throne is adorned wilh reliefs in ivory, re-
presenting John the aptist in the centre in front, the four Evangelists on
the right and left, the history of Joseph (in ten graphic reliefs) at the sides,
and the life of Christ on the hack iné (originally 16) scenes. The scenes
are surrounded with °Ornamentatiun (animals in rich foliage) distinctly
inﬂuenced by miniature painting. Near it is an ensmelled silver cruciﬁx
dating from 1366. In the lunette above the entrance to the sacristy, to
the right, ‘Elijah in the desert. led by the angel, a fresco by Guido Rem‘. —
The chapel of the Holy Sacrament (1612) in the N. Tanner-r contains the
Shower of Manna, also by Guido Rent,- the frescoes on the ceiling, Christ
in glory, are by his pupils.

Adjoining the Cathedral is the — .

’Baptistery of the Orthodox (Battistero dcgli Ortodoui; Pl. 6,
O 5), or San Giovanni in Fonts, en octagonal structure, with a
cupola, constructed of clay-vessels. According to Corrado Ricci,
this was originally part of a Roman bath, converted to Christian uses
by Archbp. Neon (449-462). The building was restored in 1866-86.

The Innnron, the pavement of which has been raised nearly 10 ft..
contains two arcades, one above the other. The cupoln is decorated with
'Hosatec of the 5th cent. (partly restored), the best and most ancient st

Bavenna representing the Baptism of Christ (with a board) with the river-
god of the Jordan on a gold ground and the twelve Apostles on a blue

26.

