414 Route 56. PISA. Lungamoﬂcﬁ bank).

In the Lungarno Mediceo (to the E. of the Ponte di Mezzo) is
the Palazao Lanfranehi (now Toseamlli), erroneously attributed
to Michael Angelo, and occupied by Lord Byron in 1822. Farther
on is the Piazza Mazzini (Pl. F, 4, 5), with a marble Statue of Muz-
zim’ (1883), and at the end of the Lungarno is the Ports alle Piagge
(see below).

On the LEFT BANK or run Anne, near the Porta a Mare, at the
W. end of the town. is situated —

*8an Paolo a Rips. d'Arno (Pl. B, 6), a basilica with nave
and aisles, probably dating in its present form from the 13th cent,
with a ﬁne facade embellished with three rows of columns, the
ﬁnest at Pisa after that of the cathedral. The interior is adorned
with badly preserved frescoes of 1400.

Farther to the E., beyond the Ponte Solferino (p. 406), rises—

‘Santa Maria dolls Spine (Pl. 0, 5), so called from a fragment
of the veritable ‘Crown of Thorns’ once preserved here, an elegant
little church in the French Gothic style, erected in 1230 for sailors
about to go to sea. It was enlarged in 1323, and adorned with
sculptures by pupils of Giovanni Pisano and by Nina, the son of
Andrea Pisano. The interior is plain (key kept at the opposite
house; fee 30 0.). The church was restored in 1872 and raised by 3ft.

Near the Ponte di Mezzo (see pp. 400, 413; P1. D, 4) are
situated the Loggia de’ Banchi(Pl. 4; D, 5), erected in 1605 by Buon-
talenti, now the corn-exchange, and the handsome Palazxo dd
Commie (Pl. 5 , D 5; formerly Gambacorti). The latter contains the
Archivio di Stato, or the city-archives, which occupy ten rooms, and
comprise about 16,000 parchment charters (one granted by Frederick
Barbarossa in 1162, one by Richard Cmur—de-Lion in 1192, and
others of very early date; catalogue kept by the custodian).

The octagonal church of Santa Sepolcro (Pl. E, 5), of the 12th
cent, is now largely restored. —- At the end of the Lungarno Gali-
leo, farther up the river, opposite the Ponte alto Fortezsa (Pl. 1“, 5),
is a passage leading to the house (Pl. F, 6) in which the astronomer
Galileo Galilei (1564-1642) was born (tablet).

The church of San Domenico (Pl. D, 7), at the S. end of the
Via Vitt. Emanuele, which leads from the Ponte di Mezzo to the
railway-station, contains an altar-piece (Cruciﬁxion) by Benouo
Gouoli, The suppressed monastery adjoining has several frescoes
by the same master.

Envieous. Outside the Porta alle Piagge (see above) the right bank of
the Arno is bordered by the pretty gardens of the Villa Umberto Prune.
in which is the Politeams. Pissno (Pl. G, 6). Pretty view (to the left) of
the Monti Pisani (p. 415). - Outside the Ports. Nuovu (Pl. A, B, 1, 2).
between the Maltruverso Canal and the right bunk of the Arno, about
3 M. to the W., is situated the Gucine di San Bomre, a farm founded by
the Medici, with ﬁne plantations of pines and oaks now a royal shooting-
lodge (ganerally accessible with permeaso only). bromedarles and wild

