xxvi CLIMATE.

Paton Post. Parcels not exceeding 5kg. (11 lbs.) in weight or 20 cubic
decimetrss in size (longest dimension not more than 60 centimetres, or
about 2 It.) may be sent by post in Italy for 00 c.; to England, vii France,
2 fr. 75 o. The parcels must be carefully packed and sealed and may not
contain anything in the shape of a letter. Parcels for abroad must be
accompanied by two customs-declarations on forms for the purpose.
Articles not liable to duty (such as ﬂowers, etc.) are best sent as samtplea
of no value (campn'ona unto salon) in Italy 2 e. per OOgr., abroad 0 e
up to 50gr., then 50. for each 50gr. more.

Telegrams. For telegrams to foreign countries the following
rate per word is charged in addition to an initial payment of 1 fr. :
Great Britain 26, France 14, Germany 14, Switzerland 6-14, Austria
6-14, Belgium 19, Holland 23, Denmark 23, Russia 42, Sweden
26, Norway 34 c. To America from 33/‘ fr. per word upwards, ac-
cording to the state. Within the kingdom of Italy, 15 words
1 i'r., each additional word 5c. Telegrams with special haste (tele-
grammi urgenti), which take precedence of all others, may be sent
at thrice the above rates. ’

XllI. Climate. Winter Stations. Seaside Resorts. Health.

It is a common error on the part of those who visit Italy for the
ﬁrst time to believe that beyond the Alps the skies are always blue
and the breezes always balmy. It is.true that the traveller who
has crossed the Spliigen, the Brenner, or the St. Gotthard in winter,
and ﬁnds himself in the district of the N. Italian lakes, cannot fail
to remark what an admirable barrier against the wind is aﬂ'orded
by the central chain of the Alps. The average winter-temperature
(December. January. and February) here is 37-40° Fahr. as compared
with 28-329 on the N. side of the mountains. Places nestling close
to the S. base of the Alps, such as Locamo (winter-temperature
37° Fahr.), Pallanw (386°), Area (3816"), and Gav-donc-Rivicra
(40°), thus form an excellent intermediate stage between the bleak
winter of N. Europe and the semi-tropical climate of the Riviera or S.
Italy. A peculiarity of the climate here is afforded by the torrents of
rain which may he expected about the equinoctial period. The masses
of warm and moisture-laden clouds driven northwards by the S. wind
break against the Alpine chain, and discharge themselves in heavy
showers, which till the rivers and occasion the inundations from
which Lombardy not unfreqnently suffers. If, however, the trav-
eller continues his journey towards the S. through the plain of Lorn—
bardy he again enters a colder and windy region. The whole plain
of the Po, enclosed by snow-capped mountains, exhibits a climate
of a thoroughly continental character; the summer is as hot as that
of Sicily, while the winter is very cold, the mean temperature
being below 35° Fahr. or about equal to that of the lower Rhine.
In Milan the thermometer sometimes sinks below zero. Changes
of weather, dependent upon the direction of the wind, are fre-

