to Bellagio. CIVENNA. 21. Route. 153

well spoken of) lies a little to the N., on the road from Como to
Leooo, which here traverses the fertile and terraced slopes of a small
hill. It contains several villas, among which is the Villa Amalia,
on the N.W. side, commanding a charming view of the Brianza. —
From Erba to Come, see p. 150.

The Hmnnoan non Erma 'ro BELLAGIO (about 19 M.) crosses
the Lambro, which has been canalized and conducted into the Logo
dt Pusiano, a little to the SE. Immediately afterwards the route
to Bellagio diverges to the left from the road to Lecco, and runs
to the N., past Longons on the W. bank of the narrow Lago del
Segrino, to -—

6M. Cmo (1270 ft. ; Croce di Malta), which is almost contiguous
to(11/‘ M.) Asso (1394 ft.), the two numbering together 4130 in-
habitants. At the entrance of Asso is a large silk-manufaotory
(Case Verso).

The road now gradually ascends in the wooded Vall’ Assina, the
upper valley of the Lambro, passing ('2 M.) Lasnigo, (‘2, M.) Bami
(2083 it), and Mayraglio (2415 ft.). The ﬁrst view of both arms of the
Lake of Como is obtained from the eminence near the (1 M.) Chapel.

Delightful survey of the entire E. arm to Lease and for be-
yond, after passing the first church of (1 M.) Givenne. (2046 ft.;
Raucous, open from April to Oct., with,view-terrace; Angela, R.
“L, unpretending), with its graceful tower. The road now runs
for 2 M. along the shady brow of the mountain, which extends
into the lake at Bellagio. Beyond the chapel good views are obtained
of the W. arm of the lake (of Como), the Tremezzina with the
Villa Carlotta and Cadenabbta, the E. arm (Lake of Leooo), a large
portion of the road and electric railway on the E. bank, and ﬁnally
of the entire lake from the promontory of Bellagio to Domaso
(p. 161), and far below the Villa Serbelloni (p. 157).

The road winds downwards for about 21/2 M., ﬁnally passing the
Villa Giulia (p. 158) and the churchyard of Bellagio. From Givenna
to Bsuagio (p. 157), 2 hrs’. walk.

A longer route, which will reward the pedestrian, Is by the ”(ante

3016M (p. 153). Ascent from Canto with a guide in L5 hrs., descent
to Bellagio 3 hrs. (fatiguing, over debris).

22. Lake of Como.

Plus of Excursion. The Lakes of Como and Lugano (p. 163) and the
Logo Haggiore (ll. 28) may be visited from Milan rnost expeditiously as
follows: by the St. Gotthard line or the Saronno-Como railway tn 1-
1'/4 hr. to Como (Cathedral); proceed by steamboat in the afternoon in
“ls-all: hrs. to Codenabbta or Bellayio, the latter the most beautiful point
on the Lake of Como, and spend the night there. In the evening and
next morning visit Villa Carlotta and Villa Serbelloni; by steamboat in
'I h. or by rowing-boat, to Managua).- thence by railway in '/r1 hf; ‘0

"We, in time for the steamboat which starts for I/ugano ( . 164), arrivrng
early enough to leave time for the ascent of Monte San Sa vatore. From

