Sant'Antonio. PADUA. 40. Route. 251

Bant’ Antonio (P1. D, E, o), the sepulchrsl church of St. Anthony
of Padua (b. at Lisbon, (1. 1231; an associate of St. Francis of
Assisi), commonly called ‘Il Santo’, was begun in 1232; the nave
was completed in 1307, and the remainder in 1424. The church
was restored in 1749 after a tire and whitewashed in the interior.
This unattractive structure is 126 yds. long and 60 yds. broad
across the transepts. It has seven domes, heightened in 1424, of
which the largest is 12:) ft. high.

The modern bronze doors, by Camilla Botta (1895), replace the ancient
doors of wood. Four rich Gothic niches in the central portal contain
statuettes, by Aug. raid, of SS. Francis, Louis of Toulouse, Anthony, and
Bonaventura, the chief saints of the Franciscan order. In the lunelte
above are 65. Bernardino and Antonio holding the monogram of Christ, a
fresco by Mantegna (1452).

The Interior has recently been repainted. The nave and aisles are
borne by twelve pillars; the semicircular choir has eight clustered columns,
an ambulatory, and a series of eight chapels. -— 0n the entrance-wall, to the
left, is the tomb of Ant. Trombetta, with a bronze bust of the deceased
by Riot-i0 (1522).

Nave. 0n the right and left near the beginning are two bénitiers,
with statnettes of John the Baptist, by Tullio Lombardo (7), and Christ, by
Til. Alpel‘t'. — By the 2nd pillar on the left, ‘Monument of Alan. Con-
tartm‘ (d. 1553), Venetian general, with six slaves as supporters, by San-
micheh‘, Al. Vittoria, and others. By the opposite pillar (2nd on right),
the simple and chaste monument of Cardinal Pietro Bembo (d. 1517), by
Sanms'chelt’: by the 4th pillar on the left, monument of the Venetian ari‘
miral Girol. Michael (d. 1557).

Brain Arsut. By the 1st pillar, a Madonna enthroned with SS. Peter,
Paul, Bernard, and Anthony, an altar-piece by Antonio Boselli of Bergamo.
— lat Chapel: on the left the sarcophagus of General Gattamelata (p. 952),
and on the right, that of his son, probably by Bart. Bellano of Padua, a
pupil of Donatello.

Rrenr Tnsnsnrr. Gappslla San Felice, formerly Han Jacdpo, erected
in 1372-77 by Andriola dad Sants' of Venice, restored in 1773, with a new
oraan, a fine altar of 1503, and 'Frescoes by Allichieri and Jan. d‘Aounzo
(1‘ 6), chief representatives of the earlier Verona School (p. 223, best light
in the afternoon). Behind the altar, a Cruciﬁxion, in three parts. In the
lunettes above and on the side-walls, scenes from the legend of St. James.

Lnr‘r Tasman. ‘Cappella del Santa, a ﬂorid late-Renaissance edifice
begun by Gian. Mimllo after thdo‘: design (15M) and continued by Jae.
Samovtna and Falconetta, with four columns in front, and two elegant
corner—pillars with reliefs by Matteo and Tommaso Gauro: between the
arches are the Evangelists. Walls embellished with nine high reliefs of
the 16th cent. Scenes from the life of St. Anthony: (beginning to the left
of the altar) 1. Ordination of St. Anthony, by Antonio Minello (1512); 2.
Murder of a woman, afterwards resuscitated by the saint, by Giornnni
Baritone; 3. Resuscitation of a youth, by Girolamo Campagna: 4. Resusci-
tation of a suicide surrounded by women, by Jae. Sansooino.‘ 5. Resus-
citation of a child, by Minello and Sansavino (1528); 6, 7. Tullio Lombardo
(1525), Discovery of a stone in the corpse of a. miser instead of a heart,
and Cure of a broken leg; 8. Miracle with a. glass, by Gian Maria (la
Padom and Paolo Stella (1529); 9. St. Anthony causes a child to bear witness
in favour of its mother, by Antonio Lombarda (1606; beautiful, but somewhat
colds Ind inspired by astudy of Greek sculpture). The bones of the saint
repose beneath the altar, which is adorned with many votive tablets. Two
magniﬁcent silver candelabra, borne by angels in marble. Beautiful white
and golden ‘Ornament-ation on the vaulting.

LEFT Arsns. Adjoining the Cap. dei Same is the baroque monument of
Caterina Comaro (d. 1874), ‘Dalmatie, dcin Greta: cum summa poiestnte
legatus‘, With two ﬁgures as supporters, two prisoners in fettcrs, and his

