528 Route 59. FIESOLE. Environs

inhab., who like most of the natives of this district are engaged
in straw-plaiting (for fans about 1/, fr., little baskets 1 fr.)

On the height we enter the spacious Piazza Mina do Fiesole, and
perceive immediately opposite us the —

CATHEDRAL, one of the earliest and simplest examples of the
Tuscan-Romanesque style, begun in 1028 by Bishop J acopo il Bavaro,
restored in 1256, and lately remodelled. It is a basilica of simple
exterior, with a transept and a spacious crypt beneath the lofty choir.
The columnar distances and the openings of the arches in the interior
are irregular. The campanile dates from 1213.

On the entrance—wall, over the door, St. Romulus, a terracotta ﬁgure
of the school of the Robbin (1521). -— CHOIR. Over the altar, Madonna and
saints, School of Giotto. The chapel to the right of the choir contains
the Monument of Bishop Salutati (d. 1466), with the bust of the deceased
and (above) a ﬁne sarcophagus by lino da Finale,- to the left is a has-
relief by the same master, representing the Adoration of the Child. On
the sides and above these, frescoes of the School of Botticelli (retouched).

Behind the cathedral is a gateway marked ‘Ingresso agli Scavi’,
forming the entrance to the ruins of some ancient buildings excavated
since 1873 (50 0., admitting to Museum also; see below): The An-
cient Theatre, with its stage facing the 8., has nineteen tiers of stone
seats, in a semicircle 37 yds. in diameter. Below are three other
rows for the seats of persons of rank. .A little farther down are some
scanty and partly restored remains of Roman Thermos. A small
projection, near the Via Giovanni Dupré (p. 427), affords a view of
a fragment of the Ancient Etruscan Wall. Above the theatre we
have a good view of the valley of the Mugnone, Pratolino, and Mte.
Senario (p. 529); to the left the viaducts of the railway to Faenu.

Opposite the cathedral, on the W. side of the piazza, are the W
Palace and the Prm‘ u‘ Sem . — 0n the E. side of the piazza is the
small Palazzo Pretoria, of the 3th cent., bearing the arms of the magist-
rates (podesth); on the groundﬂoor is the insigniﬁcant Russo Mom.
containing the yield of the excavations mentioned above (tickets, see
above). — Adjacent to it is the old but entirely modernized church of
Sun Mama Pmnaasrm, of the 16th cent, coutainin a ta'bernacle in
terracotta (Cruciﬁxion) of the school of Luca della Robbia 1 M2); to the right
reliefs of the heads of St. Rock and the Virgin by Francesco da Smalls
(1542 and 1575). Key at house No. 11; fee 30 c. —In the Piazza Umberto.
a‘ little to the W., is a bronze bust of King Humbert (19W).

The site of the Roman Capitol of Fassula! is occupied by a
Franciscan Monastery (1130 ft. ; not accessible for ladies), to which
the Via San Francesco, ascending abruptly to the W., opposite the
cathedral, leads in a few minutes. It contains a painting by Piao
di Cosimo (Conception of the Virgin; 1480). — 0n the right, I
little below the monastery, rises the venerable, but much disﬁgured
church of Sant’ Alessandro, with 15 antique columns of cipollino,
probably occupying the site of a heathen temple. The plateau in
front of it commands a beautiful and extensive ‘Vrnw (ﬁnest at

sunset) of the valley of Florence, bounded on the S. by seven]
ranges of hills, and on the W. by the heights of Monte Alba»,
beyond which the Apuan Alps stand prominently forth. A ﬁne view

