378 _Routc 51. BOLOGNA. Em Quarters:

with a valuable gold chain and medal, in addition to his remune-
ration); 139. Sant’ Andrea Corsini; '136. Cruciﬁxion, with theMs-
donna, Mary Magdalen, and St. John; ‘135. Massacre of the In-
nocents. — In this room also are: Franc. Album, 2. Baptism, 3.
Madonna del Resario; 566. Carlo Cignani, Madonna with saints.
By the approach to the next room: 142. Guido Rani, Chalk drawing
for the ‘Ecce Homo’; 30. Simone Cantarini, Portrait of Guido Reni.
On a stand in the midde of the room: 360. Niccolo da Foligno.
Madonna and saints adoring the Child, with the Annunciation on
the back.

Room B (Sula dci Carracci). To the right: 12. Guercino, St
William of Aquitaine receiving the robe of the order from St. Felix.
43. Lod. Carmcci, Transﬁguration; 206. Dommichino, Martyrdom
of St. Agnes; 36. Ann. Carracci, Madonna on clouds, with SS.
Louis, Alexis, John the Baptist, Francis, Clara, and Catharine:
35. Ag. Carracci, Assumption; 47. Lad. Carracci, Conversion of
Paul; 13. Guercino, St. Bruno and another Carthusian worshipping
the Virgin in the desert; 55. Gian. Cavedone, Madonna on clouds.
with saints; Lod. Cmacai, 48. Madonna with 88. Jerome uni
Francis, 45. Birth of the Baptist; 34. Ag. Carracci, Communion
of St. Jerome; Domenidu‘no, 207. Madonna. of the Rosary, 206.
Death of St. Peter Martyr.

Room C (Sula del Tiarini) contains works by the Procaccini.
(p. 117), and by Pellcgrino Tibaldi, Al. Tian'm' (182. Descent from
the Cross), and other Bolognese contemporaries of the Carracci.

Room D (Sula di Raffaello). To the right: 210. Studio-copy of
Raphael’s Youthful St. John (p. 462); 116. Pannigianino, Madonna,
with SS. Margaret, Jerome, and Augustine.

”152. Raphael, St. Cecilia surrounded by four other saints,
ordered in 1513 by Cardinal Lorenzo Pucci for the church of San
Giovanni in Monte (p. 373), but probably not painted before 1515.
It was at Paris from 1796 to 1815, where it was transferred from
panel to canvas, being much ‘restored’ in the process. _

‘The youthful and beautiful patron saint of music has just cease}
playing the organ to her friends, and I heavenly echo falls upon then
ears. Six angels, resting on the edge of a cloud, have caught up the 11191le
and continue it in song. Raphael‘s painting depicts the impressml
produced by the celestial music. The saints on earth are silent in P”
sence of the heavenly choir. St. Cecilia lets her hands rest mechanical];
upon the organ, but, with head and eyes turned upwards, listens entruncel
to the song. St. Paul, to her left, is differently affected. Sunk in doe]
meditation, he also seems completely oblivious of the actual world. ll
pleasing contrast to these two ﬁgures, Mary Magdalen, who sunds on thi
right of St. Cecilia and holds a. box of ointment in her hand shows ht!
delight simply and openly. . . . In the second line stand 8 . John tbs
Evangelist and Augustine (or Petronius?) . . . A crowning touch is added
to the careful distribution of the ﬁgures and well-balanced discrimirnllO'
of expression by the harmonious arrangement of the colours. The strong?
and most intense tone is aﬂ'orded by the yellow tunic of St. Cecil“;
embroidered with gold; in the St. Paul the predominant tint is “W "5"

0' hi9 mantle, relieved by the green under- arment; the Magdalen‘s Ike"
is of a violet colour. The toning down an blending of the ground-“II“

