, 1:. Academy vsmcn. 42. Route. 285

Apicture by Baccaccio Boccaccino (Room XVII, No. 600), a little-
, known master of the earlier school, is one of the best of that period.
.. Palma Vccchio is represented here by one of his best works, a
recently acquired Holy Family (R. V11). Rocco Marconi's Descent
from the Cross (R. V, No.166) is one of his ﬁnest efforts. Titian’a
masterpiece, the Assumption of the Virgin (R. II, No. 40), requires
no comment; the glowing rapture of the apostles, the jubilant
delight 01' the angels, the beaming bliss of the Madonna, and the
magniﬁcence of the colouring cannot fail to strike the eye of every
beholder. The gallery comprises also the last, uncompleted creation
f of this master: the Pieta in R. X (No. 400). His Presentation in
" the Temple (R. XX, No. 626) is also very attractive owing to the
spirited grouping and the beauty of the individual ﬁgures. Boni-
, faxio L’s wealth of colour is displayed in the Story of Dives (R. X,
‘- No. 291), the Massacre of the Innocents (R. X, No. 319), and his
small Madonna (R. X, No. 269). The Miracle of St. Mark (R. II,
' No. 42) by Jacopo Tintorctto, and the Supper in. the house of Levi
‘. (R. IX, No. 203) by Paolo Veroncsc, are specially interesting.
4 The ticket-ofﬁce is in the hall at the foot or the stairs, on the
. right. The double staircase ends in —
. Room I (Sela dei Maestri Primitivi). The ﬁnely carved Renais—
sance ceiling (end of 15th cent.) is adorned with paintings by Alvin
1 Vlvarim' (God the Father) and Dom. Campagnola. Pictures of the
ii-iéth cent., some in tine original frames. 0n the entrance-wall:
'15. Jacobeuo dcl Ftore, Allegory of Justice. To the right: 10. Lorenzo
Vmesiano, Altar-piece in sections (in the centre the Annunciation,
1358; above it, God the Father by Franc. Bissolo); 1. Joe. dcl Fiorc,
Coronation of the Virgin; 33. Michtcle Zambono (1’), Coronation of
the Virgin in an assembly of saints, in the centre ‘putti’ with in-
struments of torture (a copy of the original by Ant. Vicarini and
Giov. Alemmmo in San Pantaleoue, p. 313). To the left: 24. Mich.
Lumber-tint (Bologna; 15th cent. ), Altar-piece, with scenes from the
Legend of the Holy Cross in the predeile.
Room 11 (Sale. dell’ Assunta): "40. Titian, Assumption (‘As-
sunta’), painted in 1516-18 for the Frari (p. 310), WhOse high-

:altar it once adorned, and several times restored.

. ‘There is nothing so remarkable in this enchanting picture as the con-
trast between the apparent simplicity of the results, and the science with
which these results are brought about. Focal concentrstion is attained by
perspective science, ap lied alike to lines and to atmosphere, at the same
tune. that a deep an studied intention is discoverable in the subtle
distribution of radiance and gloom. . . . Something indescribable strikes
us in the joyful innocence of the heavenly company whose winged units
crowd together singing, playing, wondering and praying, some in light,
some_ in half light others in gloom, with a spirit of life moving in them
"18$ I! quite delightful to the mind and the eye. Like the bees about
1 en- _queen this swarm of angels rises with the beauteous a parition ot
the Virgin, whose noble face is transﬂgured with gladness, w ose step is
momentarily arrested as she ascends on the clouds, and with upturned
face and outstretched arms longs for the heaven out of which the Eternal
looks down. To this central point in the picture Titian invites us by all

 

