426 Route 57. PISTOJA. From Pisa

with wings; in the centre ﬁfteen reliefs of subjects from the New Testy
ment and Apostles, by Andrea di Jaoopo «1‘09“sz of Pistoja (1316); the
wings consist of nine reliefs ou the left, from the Old and New Testa-
ment by Hero do Fir-me (1367), and nine on the right from the life of St.
James by Leonardo at Her Giovanni, pu i1 of Orcagua (1371). About 150“».
of silver are said to have been used is the execution of this work of art.
An earlier silver altar was plundered in 1295 by Vanni Fucci, for which
crime Dante gives him a place in the Inferno (xxrv 124 et seq.).

The Carr-1|, borne by six columns, is modernised.

The campanile was originally a fortiﬁed tower (13th cent),
called Torre del Podesth, and still bears the arms of governors of
the town. The three series of arches were added in Pisan fashion
when the tower was adapted to its present purpose.

Opposite the cathedral is the octagonal ‘Battistero (San Gio-
vanni Battista; P1. 1), erected after 1339 by Cellino di Nese in the
Italian—Gothic style, according to Vasarl from a design by Andrea
Pisano. 0n the exterior is a pulpit. The principal portal has a line
wooden door. The large square font is embellished with richly-
decorated slabs from the old pulpit (1199) of the cathedral.

Adjacent is the 'l’alano Pretoria (Pi. 12), formerly Pal. del
Pedestal, a Gothic building of the 14th cent., with a modern upper
story. It now contains the courts of justice. The picturesque
'Quedrangle is enclosed by four round arches resting upon piers.
the arcades and the facade are adorned with numerous painted ar—
morial bearings of the Podesta’s, remarkable for their admirable
heraldic style, restored in 1844. To the left of the entrance are the
stone table and seats of the ancient tribunal, bearing the inscrip-
tion of 1507:

Rte locus odu, amt, pun“, somerset, honorot,
Nequitiam, lease. crimina, jut-a, probes.

The piazza is adorned with a Statue of Cardinal Forteguerm, a
native and benefactor of the city ((1. 1473), erected in 1863. -
Opposite the Pal. Pretoria is the Panazzo Din. Comma (P1. 11:
originally Pal. degli Amiani), erected in the Italian-Gothic style in
1294-1385, with a vestibule. The black marble head near the
middle window, is said to represent Filippo Tediei, who sought to
betray the city to Castruccio (p. 416). The large hall upstairs con—
tains line wood-work of 1534, a relief of the Madonna by the Master
of the Marble Madonna: (15th cent.), and a ‘Relief in marble of
the School of Vmocchio (1494), representing the arms of the city
supported by two angels. The small picture-gallery contains noth-

' ing of importance.

Passing between the cathedral and the Pal. del Comune (by the
Via Rips del Sale), we next visit SAN Bsn'ronosuao IN Pmaxo
(Pl. 0, D, 2), a basilica in the Tuscan-Romanesque style with
open roof, borne by twelve columns, with varied capitals, and two
pillars. Sculptures on the facade by Rodolﬁnus of Christ and the
Apostles, 1167; pulpit, with eight reliefs from the history of Christ.
by Guido Bigmui of Como (1250), borne by two lions and the

