to Modem. MANTUA. 33. Route. 239

ovulooks the Gavan-nun, or tournament-yard, with its twisted columns.
also designed by Giulio Romano. — We are ﬁnally conducted to the Dwms‘
humans (Appartamh Jul/ant), adapted to the size of their inmates.
- The Bacon: our) Aalnia the meeting-place of the council of lien-
Iua convened by Pins ll. in i459, and afterwards an armour-y, is not
anally shown.

The vaulted passage near the N.E. end of the Piazza Sordello
leads 'to the right to the Piazza Castello, in which rises the Costello
di Dorte (Pl. D, 2), the old castle of the Gonzugas, built in 1395-
1406 by Bartolino da Novara. The castle now contains the Archioio
Notarile and the Archiuio di Stain.

The Notaa-ial Archives Ofﬁce reached by the staircase on the left, is
open during ofﬁce-hours only (9-1; Sun. a holidays 9-12). Most of the free-
coes by Andrea lacuna which once adorned this Kart of the castle are
obliterated, but those in the 'Cuuzaa mam Eros! ( rat ﬂoor), which are
among his ﬁnest creations, were badly restored in 1845. Three scenes on
the entrance-wall represent ‘Lodovico Gonzaga meeting his son Francesco

, (aiterwards cardinal) on his return from Rome. Above the door is a tablet

with an inscri tion, borne by beautiful ‘Putti with butterﬂies‘ wings. 0n
the other we] is the Family of the Gonzagns with their court: on the

1

left, Lodovico. Gonsaga with his wife Barbara. 0n the ceiling are por—
traits of Roman emperors in grlsaille; in the spandrels are small mytho-
lodcal scenes; and in the centre is an illusive painting of an apparent
opening, through which Cupids and girls gaze down into the room. This
Int was the model for all subsequent illusive paintings of the kind.

The upper rooms| now occupied by the State Archives, were used by

. the Austrians as a prison for political prisoners.
In the little Piazza Santa Barbara, to the right of the Piazza
' Castello, and belonging to the same imposing pile of buildings, is
the church of Sma Banana (Pl. D, 2), a handsome Renaissance
building by Giov. Bait. Bertano (1565). Over the high-altar, the
Beheading of St. Barbara, by Dom. Brusasorci. By the same master
are the angel-musicians on the well to the left and the angels
with torches on the right.

To the N.W. of the Piazza Sordello is a vast space, planted
with trees and bounded by the Lago di Mezzo on the N. (drill-
ground), called the PIAZZA VIBGILILNA (Pl. 0, 2), with a hand-
some arena, the Teatro Virgiliano, beyond which, from the parapet
towards the Lago di Mezzo, a view of the Alps is obtained.

The vaulted passage on the SE. side of the Piazza Broletto
(p. 237) leads to the new PIAZZA Damn Amonmm (Pl. 0, D, 3),
with a monument of Dante (1871). To the right in this square is
the —

Panszzo nnom S'rum (Pl. 0, 3), built in 1763, now containing
the Library, the Archivico Storico Gomaga, and the ’Iuseo Civico,
which includes a number of interesting antiques, from Sabbioneta
(p. 241), etc.

The museum occupies a long gallery on the first ﬂoor. By the entrance,
'36. Bust of Euripides; 3. Julia Domna; f). Torso of Minerva 12. Marcus
Aurelius; i3. Leda; 16. Barcophagus with Medea in relief; . Faustins.
(given ”by Hantegna to Isabella d‘Este); ‘26. Torso of Eros (Greek); 27.
Antonius Pius- 31. Greek tomb-relief, funeral supper and sacriﬁce; 36.
Female torso; 3:1. Hadrian; 38. Domitian; i3. Satyr andN h (Greek);
46. Iatidia; 56. Barcophagus~relief, destruction oi Troy; bgm rsgment of

