in History. ‘ venom. 37. Route. 223

this, and, after the Carlovingian epoch, Benngan'us 1., ruled hers. Verona
afterwards headed the league of Venetian cities against Frederick Barba-
msss. During the ﬁerce contests between Guel hs and Ghibellines the
terrible Euclino da Romano (d. 1259) endeavoure to establish a lordship
“Verona. The year after Eazelino‘s death Mastino delta Scale, another
Ohibelline, was elected Podesta. The Scaligers, the great princes of his
house, inaugurated a glorious period for the city. Mastino was assassinated
is 1277, but his brother and successor Albert secured the supremacy of
his line. Romeo and Juliet are said to have loved and died in the reign
ofﬂbert‘s son Bartolomeo (1301-04). The greatest member of this illus-
trious family was Gan Francesco, or ‘Can Grands 1.‘ (1312-29) who captured
Vicente and subdued Padua after a long struggle. His brilliant court
numbered Dante among its guests. Martino 11. (1329-51) at ﬁrst conquered
Brescia, Puma, and Lucea, but his rule was afterwards restricted to
Verona and Vicenza by a league formed by Florence Venice, and Milan.
Ones-ands 11., his successor, was murdered by his brother Can Sipnors'o
in i“); and in 1387 the latter‘s son Antonio, who had also endeavoured
tosecure his possession by fratricide, was expelled by Gian Gulsauo Vis-
mil, Lord of Milan. Through the widow of Visconti the town passed in
“(ii to the Vsnstians, to whom with short interruptions, it remained
subject down to the end of the its ublic.

In the history of Antonino-run erona is important, both on account of
itsmediaeval buildings, and as the birthplace of Iii-u Giocondo (ca. 1486-1514),
one of the most famous architects of the early Renaissance whose works
no to be found at Venice, Paris, Treviso (fortiﬁcations), an Rome, and as
the home of Michele Sanmickeli (1484-1559), who sought to unite the beauty
of the Ionic order with the grim strength of military fortiﬁcations and
domed the city with a series of sumptuous ediﬁces. In judging of the
Verona palaces, we must bear in mind that it was customary here, as at
various other towns of the Venetian ‘terra ferma‘, to adorn the facades
with paintings. The painted facades of houses near San Fermo, by the
Ports Borsari in Piazza delle Erbe, and others partly recall the Paduan
style of the 15th century. — The earlier Veronese Psmnns of the second
half of the 1m cent. were an erior especially in colouring to the Floren-
tine school of Giotto and hel themselves clear of its inﬂuence. The chief
of these masters was Altichieri, to whom is ascribed the fresco in Sant‘
Anastasia (p. 225), the only monument of the period in Verona (other free-
coes in Padua, see p. 251). A new period of importance began in the 15th
century. Among the chief masters were Vittore Pisano (d. ca. 1451), the
celebrated medallist; bibsrale dz: Verona, especially noteworthy for his
miniatures; Domenico and his son Franc. Morons,- hancuco Garcia (1470-
1MB)- Gs‘rolamo dai bibs-i (1474—1556); and Paolo Mai-undo, surnamed Ca-
runoia (1486-1522). The artistic family of the Bonifan'os, though originating
in Verona, ﬂourished mainly in Venice. 0n the other hand Paolo Galidri,
unmanned Vermse (1528-88) also resident in Venice, owed his artistic
development mainly to the inﬂuence of his native place. ——- In the history
of Sonar-runs Verona also holds a place of some importance, as is evidenced
by the Romanesque reliefs on the facade of Ban Zeno (p. 229), the font
of San Giovanni 1n Fonte (p. 228), and the Gothic monuments of the Sea-
lisera (p. 2251.

Comp. ‘The Story of Verona‘, by Alethea Wiel (1902).

a. Quarters on the Right Bank of the Adige.

The 'Puzza Danna Ennis (PLE, 3), the ancient forum, now the
fruit and vegetable market, is one of the most picturesque squares in
“NY- The Marble Column at the N. end bears the lion of St. Mark,
a modern copy of the ancient cognissnce of the Republic of Venice.
Opposite is the Pal. Tuna (formerly Maffei), built in the baroque
Style in 1668, with a curious spiral staircase in the interior. The

