Bios deglchhiavoni. VENICE. 42. Route. 283

the above-mentioned passage to the Possi, a series of gloomy dun-
geons, with a torture-chamber and the place of execution for po-
litical criminals. Too much sentiment need not belwasted on the
Bridge of Sighs, as the present structure — that ‘pathetic swindle’
as Mr. Howells calls it —, serving merely as a means of communi—
cation between the Criminal Courts and the Criminal Prison, has
probably never been crossed by any prisoner whose name is worth
remembering or whose fate deserved our sympathy.

A good survey of the Bridge of Sighs and of the handsome E.
side of the Doges’ Palace, more harmonious in appearance than the
W. side, with a basement of facetted stone, is obtained from the
Ponte di Canonica (p. 301) or from the Ponte dclla Paglia, which
connects the Mole with the ‘Biva degli Bohiavoni (Pill, I, 5;
‘quay of the Dalmatians’), a quay paved with unpolished marble.
This quay presents a busy scene, being the most popular and
sunniest lounge in Venice. In 1887 it was embellished with an
equestrian Statue of Victor Emmanuel 11., by E. Ferrari; at the
back of the pedestal is Venetia enslaved, in front Venetia liberated.
The Edict Danteli (p. 269) was the home of Alfred de Musset and
Georges Sand in 1833. —— Beyond the next bridge rises the church
of Sara Mama DELLA PrarA (Pl. I, 5): in the high-choir, above
the principal entrance, ‘Christ in the house of the Pharisee by
Moretto (1544); on the ceiling, Victory of the Faith, by Tiepolo.
Near this church is the Casa del Pctrarca, presented by the Republic
to Petrarch in 1362.

For the adjoining churches of S. Zaccaria, S. Giorgio dei Greci,
and 3. Giovanni in Bragora, see pp. 301, 305; for the Arsenal,
S. Biagio, and the Giardini Pubblici, see p. 306.

b. The Academy.

The "Accadémia di Belle Arti (P1. E, 6) occupies the old Scuola
ii Santa Maria delta Carita, the assembly-hall of this, the oldest
brotherhood in Venice (founded 1260), which lies on the Grand
Canal, close by the iron bridge (steamboat-station, p. 261), and
‘nay be reached on foot from the Piazza of St. Mark in 10 min.
comp. p. 315). The entrance is to the right, under a ﬁgure of
Minerva with the lion, whence we ascend the staircase. Admission,
-.ee p. 265; catalogue (1900), 1 fr. Director, Signor Cantalamessa.

The gallery, which was founded in 1798, chieﬂy contains
)ictures by Venetian masters, and possesses many works of the first
:lass, besides an abundance of mediocre paintings. The ordinary
visitor will be most interested in the canvases of the Bellini and
be great masters of the following period. The historical paintings
)y Gentile Bellini and Vittore Carpaccio in Rooms XV and XVI
Iresent a lifelike picture of ancient Venice, while the brilliance
f their colouring makes us forget the poverty of their execution

