LOMBARDY. 111

1187, formed the headquarters of the former, and Oremona those of the
litter party, and the power of the Hohenstaufen proved to be no match
for the Lombard walls. The internal dissensions between the nobles and
the burghers which prevailed in every town, led to the creation of several
new principalities. In 1277 Archbishop Ouonc dealt View“ of Milan (whose
family was so called from their former ofﬁce of ‘vicecomites‘ or archiepisc-
opal judges) was nominated ‘Capituno del Po 010‘, and in 1295 Matteo
rams, his nephew, was appointed governor o Lombardy by the German
ting. Although banished for a time by the Guelph family Delia Torre,
ioth Katteo and his sons and their posterity contrived to assert their
right to the Signoria. The greatest of this family were Lucahino Viscontt'
(138949), Patrarch‘s patron, and Giovanni Galeauo, who succeeded his
father Graham; 11. (p. 129; d. 1378) as ruler of the W. portion of the
district of Milan. In 1885 Giovanni wrested the reins of government in
the E. portion also from his uncle Bernabo, and afterwards extended his
itchy to Pisa and Bologna, and even as far as Perugia and Spoleto. His
thief concern was to raise taxes for the purpose of carrying on war, but
It the same time the country ﬂourished under his just and systematic
government. The municipal councillors were entrusted with administrative
:ad executive powers in matters of police, while artists and men of
letters were invited to the court by the prince, who founded the Cath-
edral at Milan and the Certosa at Pavia. But after his death in 1402 chaos
tune again.

On the extinction of the Visconti family with the death of Hippo Mario
in 1M7, Milan declared itself a republic under the name Repubbh'ca di San!‘
Aubrey-’0. In 150, however, Francesco reform the condo!tiere, who had
been elected general-in-chiei by the ‘capitani‘ of the republic, made himself
ink and restored order and security to the distracted state. He rebuilt
the Easteilo, constructed the Martesana Canal and the Ospedale Maggiore
Ind surrounded himself with Byzantine and ltalian scholars, who applauded
Lie Latin orations of his daughter Hippolyta. Francesco died in 1488, and his
Ptioving but dissolute sou, Galeauo Maria, was assassinated ten years later
It: the church of Santo Stefano, leaving his son Giovanni Galeazzo still a minor.
Ludovico t'l Moro seized the regency in name of his nephew. and on the death
0! the latter in “94, he induced Charles VIII. of France to undertake a
campaign against Naples, thus inaugurating a new period in the history
of ltaly. Since that time Italy has at once been the battleﬁeld and the
my of the great powers of Europe. Lodovico himself, after having
rcvolted against France and been defeated at Novara in 15(1), terminated
ins career in a French dungeon. In 1525 the battle of Pavia constituted
Charles V. arbiter of the fortunes of Italy. In 1500 live years after the
death of the last Sforza, he invested his son, Philip II. of Spain with
the duchy of Milan. In 171A the Spanish supremacy was followed by the
Maiden in consequence of the War of Succession. On tour occasions
(E733 1745, 1796, and 18(1)) the French took possession of Milan, and the
)Ippieonic period at length swept away the last relics of its medieval
Institutions. Although Napoleon annexed the whole of Piedmont, Genoa,
Puma, Tuscany, and Rome (about 86,000 sq. M. of Italian territory) to
Fume-t the erection of the Cisalptne Republic (1797) and then of a Kingdom
”.1 {Will (1805) contributed materially to arouse a national spirit of pat-
nohsm. This kingdom embraced Lombardy, Venice, 3. Tyre], Istria,
“‘0 greater part of the Emilia, and the Marches. Milan was the capital,
““1 NapoleOn was king, but was represented by his stepson Eugene
memis. The Austrian Supremacy, which was restored in 1815, proved
‘necoucilable with the national aspirations of the people. By the Peace
0‘ Zurich (10th Nov. 1859) Lombardy, with the exception of the district
0 Iautua, was ceded to Napoleon 111., and by him to Sardinia.

