Emta Maria delk Gratis. MILAN. 19. Route. 135

hedge; Law, 44. Madonna and saints, A7. Daughter of Herodias with the
head of John the Baptist; Borgoanm, 48. Christ blessin , 49. Madonna,
50. 62. Annunciation; 51. Lombard School (not Leon. Lia (Mi), Madonna;
'72. Boltrafﬂo, Madonna; Remy-dine de‘ Gould, 56. Portrait of Camille Tri-
vulzio (d. 1525), 58. Madonna. ‘

The Via San Borromeo and the Via Santa Maria alla Ports lead
to the N.W. to the Conso MsenN'rs (electric tramway to the Ports
Magenta see p. 114), in which, to the right, is the Palaszo Litta
(Pl. 0, 5 , with an imposing rococo facade and a handsome staircase
and court, now occupied by the Rate Mediterranea railway-company
(p. xvi). Opposite, on the left, rises the small church of — .

San Kaurizio, or China del Monmtero Maggiore (Pl. 0, 5),
erected in 1503-19 by Giov. Dolccbuono, a pupil of Bramante.

The Interior contains numerous frescoes. Last chapel but one on the
right: 'Scourging of Christ and scenes from the martyrdom of St. Catharine,
painted by Lus‘m' about 1525. The ‘Frescoes beside the high-altar are by
but)“: above in the centre, the Assumption of the Virgin; below, to the
left, 88. Geo is. and Ursula at the sides of the tabernacle, with a beauti-
ful ﬁgure of an angel. In the lunette above is a kneeling ﬁgure of the
donor, Alessandro Bentivoglio (d. 1532; expelled from Bologna and buried
here), with 83. Benedict, John the Baptist, and John the Evangelist. Above,
martyrdom of St. Maurice. Below, to the right, 88. Apollonia and Lucia at
the sides of the tabernacle, with the risen Christ; in the lunette lppoiita
Sierra, wife of Bentivoglio, with SS. Scholastica, Agnes, and Catharine.
Above, King Sigismund presents a model ot‘ the church to St. Maurice.
The frescoes in the chapels at the sides of the entrance-door are by
Aurelio Luau and his pupils. — Behind the high-altar lies the Nuss‘
03013, of the same size as the church itself. At the high-altar is a
series of 9 Frescoes oi' the Passion; below, the lifesize ﬁgures of SB.
Apollonia, Lucia, Catharine, Agatha, Sebastian, and Rochus, all by Law.
Inside, between the arches, are 20 medallions of saints, h Bot-709nm“. In
the arches of the gallery above are 26 medallions of oly women, by
Bolqufﬁo.

Farther on in the Corso Magenta, on the right, is situated the
church of ‘Snnta Karin. delle Gruie (Pl. B, 5), an abbey-church of
the 15th century. The choir, with its elaborate external decoration
in terracotta, the transept, and the ﬂue dome are by Bramante.

Bren-r Arena. In the 2nd chapel, John the Baptist, an altar-piece by

' ‘ 1. 4th chapel, frescoes by Gauderm‘o Ferrari, the Cruciﬁxion,
Christ crowned with thorns, Christ scourged (1542), angels with the in-
struments of the Passion (on the vaulting); an altar-piece (Descent from
the Cross) by Caravaggio (t). —- In the Cnom are good stalls of the Renais-
sauce. — Lan- Arson. The ﬁne Cappella del Rosario, with a defaced fresco
(Adoration of the Child) by Vina. Foppa, contains the mural tablet of
Branda Castiglione (d. 1495), by om. Ant. Amadeo ('1), and the family-tomb
of the Della Torre (p. iii), by Tom. and Franc. do Cazmniga (1483; restored).

The Mchs'rnnY, long used as a barrack, with cloisters by Bra-
mante, is now being restored by Luca Belts-amt. The ﬁrst walk of
the cloisters (already accessible), to the left of the church, is adjoined
by the Sacristy, which contains an altar-piece by Marco d‘Oggiono
(John the Baptist and donor). To the right and left are relief-portraits
of Lodovico i1 More and his son Massimiliano. The Renaissance
cabinets are adorned with charming paintings on wood.

A large door marked ‘Cenacolo Vinciano’, to the W. of the
church, is the entrance to the former refec’wry, containing the

