lii ITALIAN ART.

painting, and of the diversiﬁed and widely ramming tendences,
which originally had their root in one and the same impulse or
principle. The ancient convent of Sant’ Apollom'a (p. 497) contains
the most important works of Annana DBL Gas-mono (1390-1457),
who is second only to Masaccio as a. representative of the older
generation. In the Daminican monastery of San Marco reigns the pious
and peaceful genius of Fm GIOVANNI Axonmco na Fmsou (.1387-
1455), who, though inferior to his contemporaries in dramatic power,
vies with the best of them in his depth of sentiment and his sense of
beauty, as expressed more particularly by his heads, and who in
his old age displayed his well-matured art in the frescoes of the
chapel of St. Nicholas in the Vatican. Most important and extensive

works are those of Donsmoo Gmnnaxnuo (1449—94): viz.

Pﬂgﬂfcr the frescoes in Santa Trinitl, and those in the choir of Santa

V Maria Novella, which in sprightliness of conception and in
grace of representation are hardly surpassed by any other work of
the same period. (The traveller will ﬁnd it very instructive to
compare the former of these works with the mural paintings of
Giotto in Santa Croce, which also represent the legend of St. Francis,
and to draw a parallel between Ghirlandajo’s Last Supper in the

_ church of Ognissanti, and the work of Leonardo da Vinci.)

. Although the Tuscan painters exhibit their art to its fullest
extent in their mural paintings, their easel-pictures are also well
worthy of most careful examination; for it was chieﬂy through these
that they gradually attained to perfection in imparting beauty and
dignity to the human form. Besides the two great Florentine galleries
(Ufﬂzi and Pitti), the collection of the Academy (p. 492) is also well
calculated to afford a survey of the progress of Florentine painting.

Beyond the precincts of Florence, Bnnozzo Gozzom‘s charming

scenes from the Old Testament on the northern wall of the Campo
PAINTING n, Saute of Pisa (p. 409), truly forming biblical genre—pictures,
our: Pam-s and his scenes from the life of St. Augustine in San Gimi—
0" Tusc‘m- guano, FILEPPO errr’s frescoes at Prato (p. 428), P1330
DELLA chnsoa’s Finding of the Cross in San Francesco at Arena
(p. 534), and lastly Luca SIeNOnBLLI‘s representation of the Last
Day in the Cathedral at Orvicto, afford a most admirable review of
the character and development of Renaissance painting in Central
Italy. Those who cannot conveniently visit the provincial towns
will ﬁnd several of the principal masters of the 15th century united

in the mural paintings of the Sistine Chapel at Rome, where Sunno
BonrcsLm (1446-1510), a pupil of the elder Lippi, Cosmo RossnLLr,
Dom. Ghirlandajo, Signorelli, and Perugino (p. liii) have executed a.
number of rich compositions from the life of Moses and that of Christ.
But an acquaintance with the Tuscan schools alone can never
sufﬁce to enable one to form a judgment respecting the general
01m progress of art in Italy. Chords which are here but slightly
SCHOOLB- touched vibrate powerfully in Upper Italy. The works oi

