and m Environs. roam. 7. Route. 29

.

collection, which is on the second story, is very choice. Catalogue
(1891) 5 fr. .

Room I (Rotunda). To the right are Indian weapons and gifts of honour
to Victor Emmanuel II. Beyond the door: scimitar of Tippoo Sahib, Sultan
of Hysore (d. 1799); Prussian helmets; two suits of Saracenic armour;
weapons from Eritrea; Japanese weapons and armour; models of modern
wea ons; Turkish and Persian weapons; tiny MS. of the Koran in a case.
In t a centre of the room are a bronze statuette of Napoleon I. (by
lfarochetti), a sword he wore, and a quadrant he used when a young
ofﬁcer; two French regimental eagles; gifts of honour to King Humbert;
Iolike‘s Italian orders; the favourite horse of Charles Albert. Piedmontese
flags from the wars of 1848—49 and 1859 over the cabinets. -— The long
HALL (Galleria Beaumonl) contains, on the right, several suits of armour
worn by members of the Brescian family of Marliuengo (16th cent.); the
equestrian armour of Cardinal Ascanio Maria Sforza Visconti (15th cent);
campaign suit of Prince Eugene (1708); missile weapons; shields, helmets,
daggers, maces; sword at one time erroneously attributed to Benvenulo
Cellini. Under glass, a shield, embossed, and inlaid with gliding, represent-
ing scenes from the war of Marius against Jugurtha. By the left wall,
as we return: under glass, so-called sword of St. Maurice (a work of the
13th cent); adjacent, an ancient rostrum in the 'form of a boar‘s head,
found in the harbour at Genoa. Farther on the armour of Duke Emmanuel
Philibert, Viceroy of Sicily (early 17th cent.); prehistoric, Etruscan, and
Roman weapons; ﬁne helmets and shields of the 15-16th cent.-, sword of
the Imperial General Johann von Werth (d. 1652), hearing a German
inscription in verse; equestrian armour of one of the Martinengo family
(see above). — The windows on the right command a ﬁne view of the
palace garden and the Buperga (p. 39).

On the ﬂoor below is the Born. Lissa!!! of 60,000 vols. and 2000 M88.
(shown only on application to the librarian), containing valuable geo-
graphical, historical, and genealogical works, miniatures of the 1446i]:
cent., drawings by Leonardo da Vinct (‘Portrait of himself), ha Bartolomeo,
Coweggio, Gaudemto Ferrari, etc. — A staircase ascends hence to the
Collection of Coins, trinkets, enamels, carved ivory, etc., in a small room
adjoining the Armoury.

The Palace Garden(Giardino Beale; Pl. E, F, 2), entered from
the arcade opposite the Palazzo Madame, is open on Sun. and festi-
vals, between 1st July and 1st Oct., 11-6 o’clock (military music;
p. 26). Fine view of the Snperga. — Cathedral, see p. 33.

In the PIAZZA CABIGNANO, a little to the S. of the Piazza
Casteilo, rises the Palano earls-none Pl. 41 ; E, 3), with a curious
brick facade, erected by Guarim‘ in 680. Victor Emmanuel II.
was born in this palace. The Sardinian Chamber of Deputies met
here from 1848 to 1859, and the Italian Parliament from 1860 to
1864. The handsome facade atthe back, in the Piazza Carlo Alberto,
was added in 1864-71 by Font and Bollati.

The palace contains the Musno m STORIA NATURAL! (adm., see p. 27).
The collection is divided into the Zoological and Comparative Anatomy
Section and the Palaeontolom‘cal, Geological, and lineralom‘cal Section. The
former contains a ﬁne array of birds and insects, and a collection of the
vertebrates of Italy arranged in a separate gallery. The paleontological
division contains a ﬁne collection of fossil mollusca from the tertiary
formations, and the skeletons of a gigantic armadillo (Glyptodon 010911128),
a fmlophodon Arurmnm, a Mogathers'um Guoiu‘i, and other sntediluvian
animals.

In the Piazza Garignano stands the marble statue of the philos-
opher and patriot Vincemo Giobem' (1801-52), by Albertoni, erected

