and in Collections. MILAN. 19. Route. 131

III. Roms (Sula ds' Balduccio da Pita), with traces of the original ceiling-
paintings (Resurrection and Saints), by Vine. Ema. Lombardic and Plan
sculptures (middle of the 14th cent); capitals and seal tures from the
church 01 Santa Maria in Brera,-by Gian. til Balducct'a (1347s); statues of the
Madonna, from the cathedral; portal of the church of San Gotlardo (p. 120).

IV. Boon (Sula Aperta). Works by the Campionesi (14th cent; see
p. 164). ’In the centre, large “Monument of Hernabo Visconti (p. “1), in the
style of Bom'm do Campiom, erected by Bernabo during his lifetime (ca.
1310-80), in the church of San Giovanni in Concha, on the sarcophagus are
reliefs of the Evangelists, the Coronation of Mary, the Cruciﬁxion, and a
Pieta; above, the equestrian statue of Bernabo and two Virtues (numerous
traces of gilding). By the wall is the monument of Regina della Scala,
wife of Bernabo, monument of the Rusconi family of Como (c. 1100). —Xn
the adjacent Cover, to the left, baroque portal of the time of Philip 111.,
surmounted by the arms of the Visconti and the Sforza; opposite, on the
right, “Marble portal from the Palazzo Medici, built for Cosimo de‘ Medici
by Michelono in 1457-70, with the arms and portraits of Francesco Sforza
and his wife Bianca Maria Visconti. — An adjoining Arm-noon on the
right (opened on request) has ceiling-decorations (putti) of the 16th cent,
erroneously attributed to Leonardo do ﬁnd.

V. Roun, the former chapel ( Cappslla Ducale), with the sadly damaged
remains of ceiling-frescoes (Resurrection, Annunciation) by Stefano ds‘ Fedeli,
Gina. dt’ Mentor-ﬁlm, and others (1473). Late-Gothic scul tures (ca. 1400450).
mostly from the cathedral; early-Renaissance pulpit rom San Pietro in
Gemte, designed by Michelono. —- Straight on is 1he —

, VII. Room (Sula dot Mali), with a ceiling tastefully decorated with
the arms and initials of Galeazzo Maria Stone. on a blue ground. Early-
Benaissance sculptures, showing the inﬂuence of Donatello (ca. 1450): to
the right, ”Tabernacle with six angels, by the Master of San Trauma: relief
of the Tiburtine Sihyl announcing the Nativity to Augustus, by Agouino
dt' Ducdo from Bimini. — To the right is the --

VI. ﬁoox (inaccessible in 1902), in the Torre delle Asse. The fine
ceiling- aiutings are ascribed to Leonardo da Vs’na'. The room contains
Lombard and Tuscan sculptures of the school of Filaretc and Michelono.
-— To the left is the —-

V111. Room (Gala delle Colombine). with well-preserved ceiling and wall
decorations on a red ground. (The white dove in an aureole is the crest
of Bone. ,di Savoia; beside it is her motto, ‘h hon droit‘.) Sculptures of
the best Lombard period (c. 1500). Entrance-wall: Gian. Ant. Amadeo,
Adoration of the Child, a relief from Cremona (148?). Exit-wall: Medallion
portrait of Lodnvico il Moro; half-length of a woman and relief of the
Madonna, by Tomm. Rodari. In the centre, half-lEngth of a woman and
busts, by Amadeo (1’); painted wooden ﬁgure of a saint.

IX. 1200)! (Sula degh’ Scarlt‘om'). Sculptures of the 17—18th centuries.
In the ﬁrst division: Andr. Farina, Tomb of Bishop Batt. Bagaroto (1519)-
Bambas'a, Portions of the monument of Gaston de Foix (p. 3315), ordered
in 1515 by Francis 1. but never completed, with the rerumbent ‘Statue
of the hero, and casts of the remaining portions, Bambaia, Monument of
the poet Lancino Curzio (d. 1518). — In the second division: ”Bronze Bust
of Michael Angelo, by one of his pupils (replica in the Louvre), bust of
a nobleman, in the style of Leone Leom'.

X. Boon. Terracottas of the i2-16th cent, from Milan and Cremona.

The staircase at the end of R. X, affording an excellent view
of the elegant Gothic window in R. IX (to the right), leads to the
Loggetta (p. 130), on the ﬁrst ﬂoor of which is the —

‘Musno AETISTICO Mumcrrsms. This collection, founded in 1874
and since then considerably extended, originally occupied the former

Salons in the Gardini Pubblici.
I. Econ (Sula dolls Guardie; No. 11 on the Plan). The ﬁrst division
contains a valuable collection of “Majolica: Milanese fayence (18th cent),

9‘

