RESTAURANTS. xxi

the rent in advance is a customary stipulation; but such payments
should never be made until after the landlord has redeemed all his
undertakings with regard to repairs, furnishing, etc. For single
travellers a verbal agreement with regard to attendance, linen, stoves
and carpets in winter, a receptacle for coal, and other details will
generally sufﬁce. Comp. p. xxx.

The popular idea of cleanliness in Italy is behind the age; but
the traveller in the N. part of the country will rarely suffer from this
short-coming even in hotels of the second class, though those who
quit the beaten track must be prepared for privations. Iron bedsteads
should if possible be selected, as they are less likely to harbour the
enemies of repose. Insect-powder (palvere tmetticida or contro gli
imam) or camphor somewhat repels their advances.

The semis-c, or mosquitoes, are a source of great annoyance, and often
of suﬂering, during summer and autumn and. on the Riviera, even in
winter. Only a few parts of N. Italy (e1. Piedmont, the W. lakes, and
Bologna) are free from this pest, which is always worst in the neigh‘
bourhood of plantations, canals, or ponds. Between June and October the
night should never be spent in malarial districts (Calico, Mortars, Pavia.
lsntua, Ferrara, Ravenna), where the female of the Anopheles Glaciger
frequently conveys the infection of malarial fever with its sting. Small
doses of quinine may he used as a prophylactic. Windows should always
be carefully closed before a light is introduced into the room. Light muslin
curtains (zanzars‘eri) round the beds, masks for the face, and gloves are
employed to ward oi" the attacks of these pertinacious intruders. The
burning of putilles (ﬂdibm contra ls tumors; in Venice, clu'ods‘), which may
be purchased of the principal chemists, is efﬁcacious, but is accompanied
by a. scarcely agreeable odour. A weak solution of carbolie acid in water
is efﬁcacious in allaying the discomforts occasioned by the bites.

A list of the ltalian names of the ordinary articles of underolothiug
(in Manchu-ta) will be useful in dealing with the washerwoman: Shirt
(linen. cotton, woollen), la comma (di tela. ds' oolons, di lana); night-shirt,
la camicr’a da none,- collar, it solino, it colleuo; cuﬂ‘, it polsino; drawers,
Is mutaude; woollen under-shirt, sma ﬂanella or giubba diﬂunslln or maglia;
petticoat, la sottana; stocking, to calm; sock, la calsstta; handkerchief
(silk), it fazoleuo (46 use). To give out to wash, dare a bucato (di bucato,
newly washed); washing list, la Mia.- washerwornan. laundress. la stim-
lricc, Ia lavandaja; buttons. i bottom:

X. Restaurants. Cafes. Birrerie.

Restaurants (Ristoranti, Trattorie)are frequented between 11 a.in.
sud 2p.m. for luncheon (collarionc) and between 6 and 8 p.m. for
dinner (promo). Meals are usually served aua carta at moderate
prices; meals a presto ﬁsso (2-5 fr.) are not customary except in a
few restaurants largely frequented by foreigners and are, in general,
not recommended. When there isno bill of fare the waiter (cameriere)
will recite the list of dishes. If too importunate in his recom-
mendations or suggestions he may be checked with the word ‘basta’.
The diner calls for his bill ( which should be carefully scrutinized)
with the words ‘il conto'. The waiter expects a gratuity of about
be. for each franc of the bill (comp. p. xv). —— Residents for some
time in a town should arrange to pay a fortnightly or monthly sub
scription (‘pe‘nsionc’J at a lower rate. '

