200 Route 34. BRESCIA. Municipio.

Brcscia (460 ft.), capital of a province and see of a bishop,
with 69,210'inhab., is beautifully situated at the foot of the Alps,
and its numerous fountains of limpid water lend it an additional
charm. lron wares, and particularly weapons, form the staple com-
modities, many of the ﬁre-arms used by the Italian army being made
here. The woollen, linen, and silk factories also deserve mention.

Brescia, the ancient Celtic Bﬁzt’a, afterwards a Roman colony, was
from 1167 one of the most active members of the confederation of Lom-
bard towns. In 1258 it fell into the hands of Ezuh'no (p. 223) and it
afterwards belonged successively to the Scsligers of Vrrona, the Visconti
of Milan (“ﬂ-26). and the Venetians. lt vied with Milan at the beginning
of the 16th cent. as one of the wealthiest cities of Lombardy, but in
1512 was sacked and burned by the French under Gaston dc Fan‘s: (p. 3%)
after an obstinate defence. Five years later it was restored to Venice,
to which it belonged till 1797, but it- has never recovered its ancient
importance. After the. unsuccessful revolt of 1848, Brescla alone of all the
Lombard towns rallied , under the youthful Tito Spen', to Charles Albert‘s
renewed attempt in 1849; but it was bombarded by the Austrians under
Hay/mm and after ten days of obstinate street-ﬁghting was taken on
April 2nd. —— Arnold of Bresa'a, a pupil of Abelard, was one of the most
prominent leaders of the reforming movement in Italy in the middle ages;
he attacked the secular power and wealth of the clergy, and after being
excommunicated by Hadrian IV. was executed iuilbb.

Brescia is noteworthy in the history of art as the birthplace of
Alessandro Bmvtsino, surnamed it Mantle (1498-1555), who appears to have
studied exclusively at his native place, and whose teacher is said to have
been Flon‘ano Ferramola of Brescia. He has been classed with the Venetian
school, but erroneously, for nearly all the schools of the ‘Terra Fems‘
have had on independent development; and, like the Veronese masters.
he is distinguished from that L ' by the , "ve sob of
his colouring (‘subdued silvery tone‘), although he vies with the Ven-
etians in richness and brilliancy, while he sometimes reveals a full measure
of the ideality of the golden period of art. Bonvicino began his career
as a painter in his 18th year. He rarely extended the sphere of his labours
beyond his native place, and Brescia is therefore abundantly stored with
his works. The churches here (such as San Clemente, p. 203) display his
fertility, both as a painter ‘al fresco‘ and in oils, forming uite a museum
of his pictures. San Giovanni Evangelista (p. 205), Santi uzaro e Celso
(p. 203), and the Galleria Martinengo (p. 204) all contain admirable specimens
of his powers. Among Moretto‘s pupils was Gian. Ball. Ronni (ca. 1520-78),
one of the best portrait-painters of the Renaissance. Another eminent
master of Brescia, a contemporary of Bonvicino, was Girol. Romaine
(1485-1566); his best works are to be seen in San Francesco (p. W), San

Giov. Evangelina (p. 205), and at Padua. — Brescia also contains several
nteresting antiquities (p. 20).).

The centre of the town is the picturesque PIAZZA DBL Couuxs
(formerly Piazza Vccchia), in which rises the ‘Hnnioipio (P1. 14;
B, C, 2), usually called La Loggia, begun in the early-Renaissance
style by Tomm. Fromcntom of Vicenza in 1492, but unﬁnished
until Jacopo Sansovino completed the upper part in 1554-74. The
window-mouldings are by Palladio (1562). The large saloon on the
upper story and the lofty vaulted roof were destroyed by a ﬁre in
1575. The exterior of this magniﬁcent structure is almost overladen
with ornamentation, including a charming ‘putto’ frieze by Sanso—
vino. On the groundﬂoor is a deep colonnade; in front are pillars
and pilasters. The upper ﬂoor recedes considerably. The building
is now being restored, and it is said that the disﬁguring oat-50ml

