to Florence. EMPOLI. 55. Route. 403

and appointed by Emp. Frederick 11. in 1226 seat of the imperial
governor of Tuscia. The Cathedral, dating from the 10th cent., was
remodelled in 1488, and embellished with statues in 1775.

41 M. Empoli (78 ft.; Alb. Giappone; Alb. del Sole; Rail.
Ruhmrant, poor), a. town with 20,301inhab. and the seat of a
bishop, lies in a fertile district on the Arno.

The street from the station leads to the wide cross-street Via
Giuseppe del Papa, at the end of which, on the right side of
the principal Piazza, is the early—Renaissance church of Santa Maria
di Fuori, with a dome. The nave is surrounded by a oolonnade;
the interior contains terracottas by the Della Robbie. — We then
retrace our steps along the same street, and proceed through a lane
to the left to the church of Swnta Maria degli Scolopi, with the
Cappella della Misericordia (key at the cobbler’s beside the church,
lathe right), in which there is a marble group of the Annunciation
by Bernardo Rossellino (1447).

A cross-street diverging to the right from the Via Giuseppe, still
farther on, leads to the CATHEDRAL (Collegiata), with a Tuscan-

Romanesque facade, the lower part of which dates from 1093.

lair-anion. To the left of the high-altar is a small museum; to the right
I marble statue of ‘St. Sebutian, by Antonio Roanllino (1467), in a rich
Wooden frame adorned with two angels by Batticﬂsl and two kneeling angels
)y Rauelltno; above, God the Father by one of the Delta Robbia. To the
err, in a beautiful wooden altar, a St. Andrew and John the Baptist by
Francesco dd Giovanni. Above the entrance, two reliefs of the Madonna
'i' lino do Finale and one of the Delta Robbin.

To the right, near the cathedral, is the Baptistery, with a font
[1447, and a Piete in fresco, in the style of Masaccio.

Railway to Siesta and Chiral, towards the 8., see Baedeker‘: Central Italy.

The train crosses the small river Peso. On the left, before
inching Montelupo, we perceive the Villa Ambrogiana, erected by
erdinand I. on the site of an ancient castle of the Ardinghelli, and
lrmounted by towers and pinnacles. — 45 M. Montelupo (130 it);
to castle of this place was fortiﬁed by the Florentines in 1203 in
'der to keep in check the hostile Capraja on the opposite side.
ence the appellation Montelupo, mountain of the ‘wolf', which
as desirous of devouring the ‘goat’ (capra).

The train now crosses the Arno, and slowly winds through the
wills of the Gonfolina, through which the Arno ﬂows. The heights
6 clad with pixies and cypressea, below which is quarried the
:tra serena, a kind of sandstone frequently employed in the con-
'uction of the palaces of Florence. The Ombrone, which falls into
3 Arno, is next crossed. —— 52 M. Signa, with its grey towers and
macles. founded in 1377 by the Florentines to command the road
this point. This place, as well as the opposite village of Laatra,
roted for its straw-plait. Steam-tramway to Florence (see p. 434).
e Ouida’s ‘Signa’. — Near [54 M.) Sam Domaino is Brozzi, with
merous villas which proclaim the proximity of the capital.

60 M. Florence, see p. 431.

26 '

