'388 Route 53. RAVENNA. South-West Quarters.

ground. Under these runs a broad frieze, on which, between the groups of
light columns, are represented four altars with the 0 en books of the gospels.
and thrones with crosses. The upper arcades o the wall are adorned
with sixteen ﬁgures of prophets ('1’), and architectonic enrichments, in stucco.
0n the lower section of the wall are admirable mosaics of gold festoons on I
blue ground with statues of prophets (7) at the corners. l1‘he large fontin
white marble and porphyry is of the 16th cent., but its parapet is ancient. —
In an adjoining recess is a Bacchlc vase. — Custodian, Via del Battdstero 2.

0n the ﬁrst ﬂoor of the Archiepiscopal Palace (Pl. 0, 5),
restored in the 16th cent., is the Cappella di San Pier Crisotogo
(p. 384), a square vaulted chamber of the 5th cent. (fee 30—50 c.).

The vaulting is adorned With ancient ‘Mosat‘cs; in the arches, saints;
in the centre, on the groining, four angels holding the monogram of Christ:
under them the symbols of the four Evangelism; in the centre of the arch.
Christ as a young man without heard. The Madonna and two saints over
the altar were originally in the cathedral. — The Sula Lapldaria, or ante
room, contains ancient and early-medieval inscriptions, a Roman torso in
porphyry, and a 'Relief with children, a fragment of the frieze of the
tem le of Neptune (p. 391). — The archiepiscopal Archives comprise about
11, documents on parchment.

0n the right (N o. 3), at the beginning of the Via Alb-ado Baccarini,
leading to the Ports Sen Mamante, is the Accademia di Belle Arti
(P1. D, 5), founded in 1827 (open 9-2; ring at the gate, 50 c.).

The Pic-runs Gsznnnr chieﬂy contains pictures by masters of the place.
such as two Madonnas by Mom” Rondtnem; a Cruciﬁxion Nativity. Descent
from the Cross, and several portraits by Luca bought (1567-80); pictures by
his son Francesco. The following may also be mentioned: Vasari, Descent
from the Cross; Coliynola, Madonna and saints; Guereino, 8t. Romuald;
AI. ﬂair“. St. John; C. Ctynani, 8t. Beuedict.,—- Among the other contents
of the Academy are a large ancient mosaic found at Sent‘ Apollinare in Classe
in 1875; the ‘Monument with recumbent statue of Guidarello Guidarelli.
‘guerrier Bavennate‘ (d. 1501), by Wilda Lombardo (i); Endymion, by Canon;
a bust of St. Apollinaris by Thorualdssn; many casts from the antique.

In the same street, No. 5, is the secularised Csmaldulensisn
monastery of Claus, builtin 1515 et seq. by the monks of Sent’ Apol-
linare in Glasse Fuori. It now contains the Mummsr. Conner-Ions

(Biblioteca e Museo; Pl. D, 6).

0n the groundﬁoor is the luseo Nsaionsle (adm. on week-days 9-4.5),
Sun. 3; holidays, 9-12, free; no catalogue).

We ﬁrst enter the ﬁne Caorsnns, built by Giulio More!" of Florence
in the 17th sent., which contain Greek, Etruscan, Roman, and Byzantine
inscriptions and fragments of Roman buildings and statues. E. Walk:
2‘29. Relief representing the Apotheosis of Augustus, with the seated ﬁgure
of Rome to the left and ﬁgures of Julius Clessr, Augustus, and Claudius;
fragment of the same work, with procession of sacriﬁcial animals. ILWalk:
64. Tomb-relief of the Longidiena family. — We now enter (to the right)
the Vns'rmusx or run Basses-our, with a bust of Pope Innocent x. by Esr-
m‘m’. — In the Barscronr are furniture, a collection of coins and medals,
and a fresco of the Wedding at Gena, by Luca and Frm Long)“ (1580).

In the Common leading to the church are remains of sarcophagi,
inscriptions, and mosaics from the churches of Ravenna.

The old Convert-r Cnuscu or San Bonuswo, restored by Luca Denali '
in the baroque style in 1630, with its ﬁne altars adorned with rare marbles.
contains early-Christian, Byzantine, medieval, and Renaissance sculptures
in marble: 531. Early Christian sarcophagus of the 5th cent., with reliefs
(Daniel ill the Lions‘ Den Adoration of the Magi. Raising of Lazarus),
afterwards used as the tom of the Greek Exarch lam (d. M1); 533. Earl!
christian sarcophagus-reliefs of the 6th cent. (Daniel and Lazarus; above.

