10 Route 3. LUGANO. From Lueerne

Cicico (Pl. 0, 3), erected in 18-14, with a beautiful coionnaded
court and a small Collection of Paintings by local artists on the ﬁrst
ﬂoor (open 10-12 and 2—4; fee). Beyond lies the Piazza della Ri-
forma. — A broad QuAY, planted with trees and much frequented
as an evening-promenade, stretches, under various names, along the
lake. At its E. end is the Theatre (p. 9); at the S. end of the
Quai Vincenzo Vela is a small Fountain Statue of Tett (Pl. 0, 4), by
Vela (1852).

The old conventual church of SANTA MARIA DEGIJ Anerom
(Pl. 0,4), adjoining the Hotel du Parc, contains some good frescoes
by Bemardino Luini. -

The painting on the wall of the screen (1529), one of the largest and ﬁnest
ever executed by Luini, represents the °Pauion of Christ, and contains
several hundred ﬁgures, arranged “cording to the antiquated style in
two rows. In the foreground, occupying the upper part of the wall,
stand three huge crosses, at the foot of which we perceive Roman wor-
riors, the groups of the holy women, and St. John, and the executioners
casting lots for the garments. Above on a diminished scale, from leftto
right, are Christ on the Mount of blives, Christ taken prisoner, the
Mocking of Christ, the Bearing of the Cross, the Eutombment, Thomu‘s Un~
belief, and the Ascension, all immediately adjacent. Although the style of
the composition strikes one as old-fashioned, the eye cannot fail to be
gratiﬁed by the numerous beautiful details. The St. Sebastian and St. Bochus,
below, between the arches, are particularly tine. — To the left, on the
wall of the church, is the Last Supper, and in the ist Chapel on the right
is a. line Madonna, two frescoes by Lul‘m‘. The chapel also contains the
tomb of Archbp. Lacbat (d. 1886). The sacristan expects a small fee
(215-30 c.).

The interior of the town, with its arcades, its shops and
workshops in the open air, and the granite wheel-tracks in the
streets , is also quite Italian in its character. — San Lorenzo
(Pl. 0, 2), the principal church, on a height below the station,
built at the close of the 15th cent, has a tastefully enriched marble
facade in the early-Renaissance style, probably by Tommaso Rodari
(1517). — The terrace in front of the station commands an extensive
*View of the town and the lake.‘

There are various pleasant WALKS, well provided with guide-
posts and benches. To the S., on the highroad through the suburb
of Paradise (Pl. A, B, 6; electric tramway, see p. 9), and by the
foot of Mte. Salvatore, to the (11/4 M.) headland of San Martino.
'i‘o Melide, see p. 12. — From Paradise a footpath leads to the right
to (5 min.) the Bel'vedere, which commands another tine view. —'
To the W. by the Ponte Tresa road (Pi. A, B, 4, 6; p. 154; short—
cuts for walkers), to the (ii/.2 M.) hill on which _lies the frequented
Restaurant du Jardin (also pension), with a shady garden. The
village of Sorengo (132-5 ft.; Pens. de la Colline d‘Or) is situated
on a hill to the right (ﬂue view from the church; to the W. is
the Lake of Muzzano). A carriage-road leads from the Restaurant
du Jardin, to the left, via Gentilino, to (11/2 M.) the conspicuous
church of Sant’ Abbondio (1345 it), in the graveyard of which
are several monuments by Vela. The walk may be pleasantly

