a. Santa Trinitd. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 505

cornices, immediately above which are the handsome windows, with
their columnar mullions. The celebrated top. cornice (unﬁnished),
by Cronaca, is an enlarged copy from an antique Roman fragment.
The fanali or corner-lanterns (by Caparra), the link-holders, and
the rings are among the ﬁnest specimens of Italian iron-work of the
period. The court, added by Cronaca, is also impressive.

Nearly opposite, on the E. side of the piazza, is the Palazzo
Sirozzino (Pl. E, 5), a smaller building in a similar style. with a
ﬁne court, ascribed to Giuliano da Majano (ca. 1460). Farther on
the street reaches the Piazza Vitt. Emanuele (p. 504).

The back of the Pal. Strozzi abuts on the VIA Tonxanvoxr
(_P1. D, 4, 5), the most fashionable street in Florence, with hand—
some palazzi and ﬁne shops. 0n the right (No. ‘20), is the Palazzo
Carri—Salviati (P1. D, E, 4), formerly Tomabuoni, originally by
Michelouo, but remodelled in 1867. No. 19, on the left, is the ﬁne
Palazso Lardsrsl (Pl. D, 4), formerly Giwmlni, in the developed
Renaissance style, by Giov. Ant. Dario (1558-80). No. 3, also on
the left, facing the Piazza Antinori (Pl. E, 4), is the Palazao
Antimri (Pl. E, 4), with its elegant early-Renaissance facade, said
to have been built by Giuliano do Sangallo. — Opposite is the
church of Sanli Michele e Gaeiano, rebuilt by Matteo Nigetti in
1604-48. Adjacent, to the left, is the Cappella San Gaetano
(sacristan in the lane to the left), containing a relief of the Madonna
by Andrea delta Robbia.

Two streets lead to the W. from the Pal. Strozzi: the Via della
Vigna Nuova, to the left, and the Via della Spada, to the right. In
the former (No. 20) is the 'Palauo Bucellai (Pl. D, 4), erected in
1446-51 by Bern. Rosscllino from a design by Leon Battista Alba-ti,
who for the ﬁrst time here employed a combination of rustica and
pilasters. Opposite is a loggia of 1468, now built up. — In the
'Via della Spade are the former church of San Pancrasio (now a cigar-
factory), in the Piazza S. Pancrazio, and the Cappclla dc’ Rucsllui
(key kept by the porter of the Pal. Rucellai; fee 1/2 fr.). The chapel
contains an ideal imitation in marble of the Holy Sepulchre at
Jerusalem, a charming early-Renaissance structure, also by Alberti
(1467). — The continuation of the Via della Spada, Via di Palazzuolo,
see p. 504.

The Via Tornabuoni ends on the S. in the long PIAZZA SANTA
anNm‘A (P1. D, 5). The N. end of the square is adorned with a
Granite Column from the Baths of Caracalla at Rome, erected here
in 1563, and furnished in 1570 with an inscription in honour of
Cosimo I., who had Just been made grand-duke by the pope. 0n
the summit is placed a statue of Justice in porphyry, by Fr. Tadda,
added in 1581. The ﬁgure was afterwards considered too slender,
and consequently draped with a robe of bronze.

The church of ’Santa Trinite (Pl. D, 5; pronouned Tn’nita by
the Florentines), one of the oldest buildings in the city, was in the

