San Giorgio. VENICE. 42. Route. 317

(painted in 1512 for the church of Bento Spirito; still reminiscent of
Giorgione and Palms), distinguished by its ﬁne colouring and the noble
heads of the stints; adjacent. to the left, Madonna and saints, by Cristo-
fora da Par-ma, 1495. ‘Ceiling-psintings: Cain and Abel, Abraham and
lane, David and Goliath, by Titian, painted about 1543 {or San Spirito
under the inﬂuence of Correggio.

Between this church and the Dogana di Mare (mentioned at
p. 291] is the Seminnrio Patrinrcnle (P1. G, 6; built by Longhcna
in 1670), containing a few sculptures and the Galleria Manfredini,
a small collection of pictures (sdm., see p. 265).

The Sculpture Collection occupies the groundﬂoor (on the N. side of
the court). On the entrance-well of the Oratory is the tomb of he. Ssn-
sovino, formerly in San Gemininno (p. 271), surmounted by a terracotta
bust of the pointer by Al. Vittoria. At the alter ere 18th cent. statues of
SS. Benedict, chhnrles and John the Baptist. 0!: the altar of the adjoin-
ing SAGIIBT! is a reliei of the Adoration of the Child (about 16(1)), with
high-reliefs of St. Catherine (1.) and St. Cecilia (L). by Tunic Lombardo.

The Picture Collection is on the ﬁrst ﬂoor. Opposite the entrance
Giorgions, Apollo and Daphne (retouched); to the left, Bum/«mt (ascribed
to Baldnseere Peruui), Penelope; to the right, below, Albertinsllr' (ascribed
to Fr. Bartolommeo), Madonna and Chil ; opposite the windows, Holy
Family with an angel, a copy, with vsrletions, by Marco momenta of
Leon. dn Vinci’s Mndonnn of the Grotto, in the Louvre; below, Filippt'no
Lippi Christ and Mary Hegdnlen (on the left), and the Samaritan Woman
(on the right).

We may now return across the Grand Csns1(trsghetto, comp.
p. 261) or proceed to the S.W. to the church of Sento Spirito
(Pl. F, 7), which contains a. ﬁne painting of Christ between SS.
Erasmus and Secnndus, by Buonconsiglio (over the side-portal,
to the right). —— A little to the N.W. is the Fondsments delle Zattere,
with the church of the Gesuaii (see p. 314).

Opposite the Piszzettc to the S. , and 8.13. of the Dogma di
Mare (about 1/4 M. from both these points), is the small island of
San Giorgio Maggiorc (steamboat-station, p. 261), with ~—

‘Snn Giorgio Buggies-e (Pl. H, I, 7), a cruciform church with
a dome, and specs terminating the trsnsepts, begun by Palladio
in 1560. The facade, with only one order of columns, was added

by Scamossi in 1602-10.

The “internal (when closed, ring the bell) is very beautiful. Over the
door n portrait of Pope Pius VIL, who was elected by s conclsve of Car-
dinals held here on 14th March, 18(1). Over the 1st eltsr to the right,
Nsﬁvity, by Jae. Banana: 2nd, Crucifix in wood, by llichelono: 3rd, Martyr-
dom of SS. Cosmos and Deminnus; lth (in the trnnsept), Coronation oi
the Virgin, the two inst by Tintorsuo nnd both, like his other works in
this church ‘daubs redounding to the pninter‘s everlnsting shme‘ (Eurek-
hsrdt). —- Cums. In front, two brsss candelabra, by Niccoleuo Roccatav-
liala (1596); (r.) Last Supper, (1.) Gathering the Mann, both by Tintoreuo;
on the high-altar, n group in bronze by Girolamo Campayna, representing
the Ssviour on n gilded globe borne by the four Evangeline, beside them,
two angels. The reliefs on the sumptuous baroque 'Choir Stalls represent
scenes from the life of St. Benedict, and were executed by n Flemish
artist, Alberto dz Brute (1598). — At the altar to the left of the choir,
Resurrection, by Wntoreua, with the family of the Morosini. - LEFT
TRAIBIPT: Mnrtyrdom of St. Stephen, also by Tinloreuo. — At the 2nd
alter to the left: Virgin and Child with Angels, over lifesize, by Girol.

