to Florence. LUCOA. 57. Route. 421

Sebastian, Jerome, and Helen). The chapel to the left of the choir
contains, on the left well, a relief of the Madonna by Raffaello da

Montelupo.

The Pamzzo Pnnronro (PI. 19; C, 3), in the early-Renaissance
style (built after 1492), is situated on the 8. side of the Piazza
S. Michele. In the loggis is a statue of Matteo Civitali, by Am.

Fm: (1893).

The Via Calderia leads hence to the N. to the China dd Sal-
vatore or Misericordia (Pl. ii; 0, 2), over the S. side-door of which
is a ﬁgure of St. Nicholas, by Biduinus (p. 411).

Beside the sdjscent church of Santa Maria Corteorlandini, in the street
of that nlme is the Blbuokca (Journalism (131.2; C, 2), which possesses
some interest ng M58. (s4. Latin poems by Tasso) and early printed works.
To the left of the Beale Lieeo is the 16th cent. Palauo Oontroni-Pfamier
(Pl. 0, 2), with a handsome steircsse.

On the N. side of the town is situated —

‘Snn Frodiuno (Pl. D, 2), said to have been originally dedi-
cated to San Vincenso by St. Frigidlunus, an Irishman, who was
Bishop of Luccs in 560-78. In the 7th cent., however, it became
the church of a. monastery founded by the Lombard kings Berthario
and Ounibert. In 111‘2-47 it was rebuilt in the Romanesque style.
The exterior deviates from the Tuscan-Romanesque style in having
vertical bands and colonnsdes with straight srchitraves. The A5-
:ension in mosaic (12th cent.) with which the facade is adorned

was restored in 1829.

Irrnuxon. The Nave was originally ﬂanked with double aisles, the
outer of which have been converted into chapels. Eight of the ‘22 columns
are antique.

0n the entrance-wall sre two frescoes: to the left, Madonna and
saints, by Amico Alpertini, a. pupil of Fr. Francln; on the right, Visi-
tation, by Rid. Ghirlandqlo (inJured). —— Lsr'r Arena. The CArrsLLA Dr
Sam“ Aaosrruo (2nd) contains two ﬁne frescoes by Amico Aspertx'ni (restored
in 1831). On the ceiling God the Father, surrounded by angels, prophets,
and sibyls; in the lunette to the left the Entombment; below it. to the
left an image of Christ found in the see. (Volta Saute, p. 418), drswn
by wo oxen, to the right St. Augustine, baptised by St. Ambrosius at
Milan. In the lunette on the wall, on the right, St. Augustine instructing
his pn ils, and presenting them with the rules of his order; below to
the le t, the Nativity and Adoration of the Magi; on the right, Son ri-
gidiuno miraculously checking on inundation of the sen. -- In the CAP
mun; mu. SANTO Swnannnro (4th), en sitar with s ‘Madonns end
"our saints in relief by Jacabu: mayislrt Petri do Sam's (Jacopo delta
2uercia); shove, four prophets in high relief; below, low reliefs of
dartyrdoms, e Plots, etc. (1422). Opposite no the tombstones (damaged)
.f Feﬁeiiigeg Trenta, founder of the chapel, and his wife, by the same
.rtiat .

Bran-r Arsu. In front is the ancient font, with stiff reliefs (copied
rorn an early-Christian ivory pyx), according to a doubtful inscription by
Iobertur (1151); by the well is the more modern font by Niccolo Ciuitali;
t the back of the ﬁrst, Annuncistion, of the School of the delta Robbia.
'he 2nd chapel contains the tomb of St. Zita, the pstroness of Luccn
ienﬁoned by Dante (Inferno, xxi. 88). In the 5th chapel is e psinte
alief of the Death and Assumption of the Vir in, by Matteo Civitah‘
e Yougyer, and a ﬁne Coronation of Mary, by rancesco Francis (both
)vere .

