480 Route 58. FLORENCE. c. From Santa Croce

Lar'r Arena. ‘Monument of Carlo Marsuppini (d. 1456), secretary of state
by Decides-i0 do Hettimno, surpassing the tomb of his redecouor B
(p.478) in wealth of ornament (cast in South Kensington Iuenm). Node] of
a monument to Donatello, by Urbano Lucclmi. Near the entrance, monument
of Galileo Galilei (d. 1642), by 0. B. Fogaim'. Adjacent, fragments oi
frescoes (Cruciﬁxion, etc.), of the School of Giotto. 0n the entrance-wall
is the monument of the savant Gino Capponl (1792-1876), by Ant. Earlene
(1830. — In the middle of the nave, near the choir, the marble tomb at
John Catrick, Bishop of Exeter, who died at Florence in 1119 when on
an embassy from King Henry V. to Pope Martin V.

The Frnsr CLors'rsas, erected by Amolfo di Gambia, are now
usually entered from the Piazza Santa Croce, through a gate to the
right of the church. They contain the tomb of Gastone della Tone,
patriarch of Aquileia (d. at Florence in 1317), old monuments of
the Alamanni, Pazzi, and other families, many coats-of-arms, and
modern tombs. In the centre, God the Father, astatne by Bandinclli.

Opposite the entrance from the Piazza is the ‘CAPPBLLA or m
PAZZI (p. 437), one of the ﬁrst creations of modern architecture,
erected by anelleschi about 1430, and restored in 1899-1900.
The vestibule has a barrel—vaulted roof, supported by columns
connected by a parapet, and interrupted in the middle by an arch
and cupola adorned with glazed and coloured lacunars. In front is
a charming frieze of angelic beads by Donatello and Desiden‘o do
Settignano. The interior, roofed with a ﬂat dome, forms one ofthe
earliest examples of the principle of architectural centralisation,
which is so characteristic of the Renaissance. The terracottas of
the spandrels, representing the four Evangelists and twelve Apostles
(below), are by Luca delta Robbia.

The old Rana-roar of the Franciscan convent, on the entrance-side
of the cloisters, is opened by the custodian (Kl-50 c.). On the mrwtll
is a Last Supper, probably by Todd“ am.- above, the Cruciﬁxion, with
a genealogical tree of the Franciscans, and the legend of SS. Francis and
Louis by an inferior hand. The refectory contains also two Cruciﬁxion:
of the School of Giotto,- a Cruciﬁxion (fresco) by Michele Okla-dale,
formerly on the Ports. San Gallo; and a fresco of St. Eustace, erroneously
attributed to Andrea dal Cosimo. To the right is an old relief (13th cent.)
of the Marisa at the Tomb. — The adjoining Wan-an erlcronr contains
the Miracle of St. Francis (multiplication of the loaves), a fresco by
Giovanni do San Giovanni.

The SECOND CLorsrnns, by Brunellcschi, one of the ﬁnest colon-
naded courts of the early Renaissance, are now included in the cavalry
barracks in the Gorso de’ Tintorl (no admission).

Leaving the Piazza Santa Croce, we proceed to the S. throu h the
Via de‘ Benci, at the end of which on the right. No. 1, is the alarm
Alberti (once the residence of Leon hatt. Alberti; restored in 1850), and
reach the Ponte alle Grazie (see p. 519). ‘

From the N.E. side of S. Croce, the Via delle Pinzochere leads
to the VIA Gnrnannnu (p. 477), No. 64in which, at the corner of
the Via Buonarroti, is the can Buonarroti (Pl. G, 6), purchased
by Michael Angelo for his nephew Leonardo. Leonardo's son, the
Poet Michael Angelo Buonarroti the Younger, here founded about
1620 a collection of memorials of his great kinsman, which the last

