30 Route 7. TURIN. ' Collections

in 1859. — The Piazza CARLO Aunnro (Pl. E, 3) contains a bronze
monument to King Charles Albert, designed by Marocchctti (1861).

In the vicinity, at the corner of the Piazza Carignano and the
Via dell' 'Accarlemis No. 4, is the Paluxo dell' Looadémia. dolls
Scions (Pl. E, 3), formerly the Jesuit College, erected by Guarim‘
in 1679. On the GROUND FLOOR, to the right, are Egyptian, Roman,
and Greek sculptures (key kept on the first ﬂoor); on the Firm
FLoon smaller antiquities; on the SECOND FLoon (98 steps) the
picture-gallery. Admission, see p. 26.

The Museum of Antiquities (Reels Mum: dell: Antichitd) had as its
nucleus the Egyptian collection founded about 1820 by Btrn. Broretti.
Director, Prof. Schiaparclll. No catalogue.

Roons I AND H on the groundtloor contain the larger Egyptian anti-
quities; large sphinxes, figures of idols and kings, architectonic fragments,
models of temples, and plaster casts. The ﬁnest objects are, in R. 1:
large capital in the shape of a wreath cf lotus-(lowers; colossal head of
a king of the Early Empire; two statues of Amcnophis 11.3 and dimite
'Slatuc of Ramses ll. (Susoshii)‘ in R. II: colossal statires of Kings
Thutmosis II. and l-loremheb. »— ’e now enter the Gun“. to the left.
1st Section: Grteco-Roman sculptures found in Egypt and Rome: Youth
(restored as Mercury); 1 good torso; Amazon (in green basalt; freely
restored); fragment of a line relicf (youth in a chariot with four horses),
probably a Greek work. In this section are also cinerary urns and other
Etruscan antiquities from Luni~ (p. 105). 2nd Section. Remains of a
Roman mosaic (myth of Orpheus) and inscriptions found in Piedmont.
31d Section: Roman inscriptions and architectural fragments.

The Egyptian collections are continued on the Finer FLoon. In the
11! Room are mummy-cofﬁns, mummies, mummy wreppings, canopi,
scarabui. amulets, etc. Among the papyri is a ‘Book of the Dead’, edited
by chsius. In the centre are the mummy of a priest and the cofﬁn of
a scribe, bearing hieratic inscriptions from the Book of the Dead. — The
2nd Room contains reliefs and inscriptions, from the 5th Dynasty down
to the Roman period; “Statuettes of the Early Empire. the Middle Empire,
and the New Emiire (notably one of a girl, of the latest period). In the
centre, in a case resembling an Egyptian house. are papyri of the
20th D_\ nasty. Fragments from the archives of a temple in the Necropolis
ot‘ Thebes. The desk-cases contain a celebrated list of the kings of Egypt
down to the 19th dynasty, discovered by Champollion; remains of topo-
graphical plans of Egyptian gold-mines; a papyrus with caricatures: etc. —
Adjoining is a small room containing Cyprian antiquities. — From R. 1 we
enter Gallery I, to the left. To the right and in the centre are ﬁgures of
Egyptian deities, amulets, articles used in worship; the Tabular In'aca
found in the pontitlcate of Paul 111.; domestic utensils vases, textile
fabrics, toilet-articles, weapons. sandals, etc. To the left are Egyptian
an'iquilies of the Hellenistic, Roman, early-Christian, and Arab periods
(including Captic textiles). — Gallery 2. To the right and in the centre,
prehistoric antiquities from Egypt; to the left, prehistoric and ethno-
graphicai collections from the Congo; weapons and utensils from Somali-
land. — Room 3. Prehistoric collection from Piedmont; casts of the reliefs
of a triumphal arch at Susa (p. 4’2). In the centre, model of the largest
‘Nnrago‘ in Sardinia. — Room 4. Roman and Celtic antiquities found in

Piedmont. Amongst the former are some fine glass and good bronzes (a
Silenus; “Athena of the type of the Parthenos of Phidias; Roman portrait-
bust of a member of the (lens Claudia).

The *Piotnre Gallery (Pinacotica) embraces 21 rooms, contain—
.ing over 600 paintings. Director, Al. Baudi di Vcsme. Good
illustrated catalogue (1899), 4 fr. — The art-collections of the
House of Savoy were founded by Charles Emmanuel I. (1580-1630)

