 

of Florence. PRATOLINO. 59. Route. 529

of the A pennines and the upper Mngnone valley is obtained from
the edge of the wood behind the convent.

Beyond Fiesole, on the 8.E., rises Horus Court (14.55ft.), from the
quarries of which comes the gray pietra serene so universally used in
Florence. Splendid view from the top (rough path). We may descend
direct to the road to San Domenico or to Pants 3 Mensola (see below).

From the Regresso di Majano (p. 52’“ the Via Benedetto da Ma ano
skirts the slope of Mte. Ceceri to (1/: M.) Majano (565 ft.). In about 1 4hr.
more we reach the road from Florence to Setti and, a little on this side
of Poole a Mmola (265 ft.; electric tramway, ho. 5, p 434).

On a. hill-top 1 M. to the N.E. of Mano lies the Costello di Vinciglilte,
a castle of the 14th cent., belonging to Mr. '1‘. Leader, an Englishman, which
has been restored since 1855 and ﬁtted up in a medimvel style. Visitors
are admitted on Sun. and Thurs. between 8 and b (attendant 1 fr.). The
Castello may be also reached from Ponte a Mensola by a steep road in
'/4 hr, and from Fiesole in 1 hr. by a rough cart-track, passing Borgrmto.
on the N. slope of Mte. Ceceri, and the medimval Cartel at P0 eta. — Circular
drive from Florence vii Fiesole and Vincigliata, see p. 5 '.

About. “/2 M. to the E. of Florence is the high-lying and pleasant
villa e of Settlgnsno (58011.) the terminus of the electric tramway No.6
(p. ). From the u per en of the village the beautiful Via Desiderio

' da Settignano descen s to the left vii the hamlet of Corbtgnano (A15 ft.),

to (1/2 hr.) Pom a Manuela (see above).

In the midst of a wood about 9 )1. to the N. of Florence, and about
8 M. from the station of Montana“ (p. 896) vii the village of that name,
lies Pratolino (1512 ft.; Ferd. Zoceht‘s 11m) A little on this side of the

1 villagel to the right, is the entrance to the Villa of Pratolino, formerly
I]

belong g to the grand—dukes and now to Prince Demidoﬁ‘ (adm. only by
permission of the steward). The chitenu, built by Buontalenti about 1569
at the instance of Francesco de‘ Medici, for the reception of Bianca
Cappello (p. 5(3), has long been in ruins, while the gardens have been

‘ modernized and partly converted into plantations. Almost the only relic

of former splendour is a colossal crouching figure (62 ft. high), represent-
ing the Apennlnes and ascribed to (Now. do Baloyna. — From Pratolino

. a. beautiful road, with numerous views, leads to the N.E. vii Maciolr' to

(5 I.) the Home Senan’o (2100 ft.), on the top of which, in the midst of
a grove of pines, is a Servite Convent (Annunziata), founded in 1233 and
restored in 15“. The great terrace affords a splendid ‘Panorama of the
surrounding mountains, with distant views of Fiesole and Florence, seen
through the valley of the Mugnone. An excellent liqueur, ‘Gemma d’Abeto‘,
is made at the convent. From the summit we may go on to the NW. (at
ﬁrst by a rough footpath) to the railway-station of Paglia (p. 398; 1‘]; hr.,
in the opposite direction 2hrs.).

(h.) SAN SALVI, about 3/, M. from the Piazza Beccaria (Pl. 1, 6;
electric tramway No. 6, p. 434). We leave the tramway in the Via
Aretino at the corner of the Via dt S. Salvi, which brings us in
3 min. to a doorway on the right (knock). 0f the Vallombrosan
monastery of San Salvi, founded before 1084, where in 1312 Emp.
Henry VI]. established his headquarters during the siege of Florence,
only the remains are now extent. The district adjoining the Campo
di Marte is still called ‘Carnpo d’Arrigo'. The former refectory (adm.,
see p. 438) contains a collection of old paintings belonging to the
Florentine galleries and a *Fresco by Andrea del Sarto (1526—27),
representing the Last Supper.

The painting ‘is calculated to be seen at aburst on entering the door.
. . . It is marvellous how the shadows cast by the figures, and the parts
in them turned away from the light, keep their value; how the varic-
gated tints preserve their harmony‘. - C. d‘ C.

Bunnxsn. Italy 1. 12th Edit. 34.

