302 Route 42. VENICE. d. From St. Mark to

and Mara Caducci. The rounded arcades are borne by six Corinthian
columns. The recess of the high-altar, the ambulatory, and the
radiating chapels are Gothic. The facade is of somewhat later date.
Over the entrance, the statue of St. Zacharias by Al. Vittoria.

The walls in the NH: are covered with large pictures, all, except
those over the altars, representing events in the history of the church.
To the left, above the second altar: ‘Madonna enthroned, with four saints
and an angel-musician by am. Bellini (1605): — this altar—piece ‘takes
us with a spring into the midst of the Venetian modems. . . . There is
no other example up to this time of great monumental art in this school:
none in which composition, expression, movement, etfect, and colour are
so richly combined with freedom of hand‘ (0. (t 0.). The work is us-
fortunately somewhat injured and is seen to advantage in its present
position only before 10 a.m. Further on is the tombstone of Alessandro
Vittoria (d. 1608), with a bust by the master himself, ‘qui m‘vem viva!
duzit s marmore vultm‘. — The third arcade on the right leads to the
Cairo Danna Mouser-m (choir of the nuns), with inlaid choir-stalls by Ham
da Vicsnza (1480), a Madonna and saints ot‘ the School of Palma Vecho, and
a Nativity of the Baptist by Jae. Tintoretto (above the door). -- In the
CAPPELLA in San Tanasm (to the right of the high-altar; opened by the
sacristan) are three gilded Altars in carved wood, with old Venetian paint
ings by Ant. Wearini and Gian. Almarmo. At the high-altar is a Madonna
and saints of 1444; the smaller altars to the right and left are adorned
with saints of 1443.

We retrace our steps, and from the Camp‘o di San Provolo take
the Calls San Provolo to the right (NJ, cross the Ponte dc! Carmini
(to the left), follow the Gallo Corte Rotta and the Rugs Giuffa (on
the right is the Gothic Area Ben), and thus reach the larger Gama
SANTA MARIA Fashion, in Which is situated —

Santa Maria Formosa (Pl. H, 4), a church of early origin, but
several times remodelled (for the last time in 1699).

Inn-Eaton. 1st Altar on the right: Palm Vecchto, “St. Barbara and
four other saints, with a Pieth above, in the best and grandest form of
Palma‘s art. ‘St. Barbara‘s shape is grandiose and queenly. The glance, the
massive hair, the diadern and vestments, the full neck and throat, are all
regal; and the whole impersonation scents of the Giorgionesque and reveals
the 16th century. It is the very counterpart of the ﬁne-chiselled and
voluptuous fair one who sits so gorgeously in her red dress and auburn
locks amongst the three graces of the Dresden Museum‘ (0. 4' CJ- -'
2nd Altar: Bart. Vivarini, Birth of Mary, Mary as the Mater Misericordise.
and 83. Anna and Joachim (1473). S. Transspt: L. Banana, Last Supper.
Choir: modern frescoes by Poole!“ (1844.). — A chapel, to which a stair-
case ascends (shown by the sacristan), contains (1.) a Madonna and Child
by Sassofcrralo and another by Pietro da Marina (a signed work of this
rare master).

The Palazzo Malipiero, at the corner of the Rugs Giuft‘a, on the
8.13. side of the Campo S. Maria Formosa, is an elegant early Re-
naissance building by Sante Lombardi (after 1500). -— A few paces
to the E., beyond the Ponte Rugs Giuffa, are the Pal. Querim
(p. 263) and the Pal. Grimani (Pl. H, 4 , completed in the high—
Renaissance style by Seb. Seq-lie (‘2) in 1 39. Little remains of its
once famous collection of antiquities; in the court, a statue of
Agrippa, only partially antique. A room on the ﬁrst ﬂoor has
charming Raphaelesque ceiling-decorations of 1539-40 by Gian. di
Udinc (p. 327).

