 

lvlii ITALIAN ABT.

(1504) Raphael did not at ﬁrst abandon the style he had learned at
Perugia, and which he had carried to greater perfection than any
of the other Umbrian masters. Many of the pictures he painted
there show that he still followed the precepts of his ﬁrst master;
but he soon yielded to the inﬂuence of his Florentine training.
After the storm raised by Savonarola had passed over, glorious days-
were in store for Florence. Leonardo, after his return from Milan,
and Michael Angelo were engaged here on their cartoons for the
decoration of the great hall in the Palazzo Vecchio (p. 4-46); and it
was their example, and more particularly the stimulating inﬂuence
of Leonardo, that awakened the genius and called forth the highest
energies of all their younger contemporaries.

The fame of the Florentine school was at this period chieﬂy
RAPHAEL} maintained by Faa BABTOLOMBO (1475-1517) and Amru
Faoaaarma DBL San'ro (1487-1531). The only works of Bartolomeo
CONTEIPOB- which we know are somewhat spiritless altar-pieces, but they

“"35‘ exhibit in a high degree the dignity of character, the tran-
quillity of expression, and the architectural symmetry of grouping
in which he excelled. His ﬁnest pictures are the Christ with the four
Saints, the Descent from the Cross (or Pieta), the St. Mark in the Pitti
Gallery, and the Madonna in the cathedral at Lucca. The traveller
would not do justice to Andrea del Sarto, a master of rich colouring,
were he to conﬁne his attention to that artist’s works in the two
great Florentine galleries. Sarto’s Frescoes in the Annunziata
(p. 483) and in the Scalzo (History of John the Baptist, p. 497) are
among the ﬁnest creations of the cinquecento. Such, too, was the
stimulus given to the artists of this period by their great contain-
poraries at Florence that even those of subordinate merit have occa-
sionally produced works of the highest excellence, as, for instance,
the Salutation of ALBBBTINELLI and the Zenobins pictures of R1—
DOLFO Garnnmnuo in the Ufﬂzi. The last masters of the local
Florentine school were Poxroamo and ANGELO Bnoxzmo.

Raphael’s style was more particularly inﬂuenced by his relations
to Fra Bartolomeo, and the traveller will ﬁnd it most interesting
to compare their works and to determinetowhat extent each derived
suggestions from the other. The best authenticated works in
Italy of Raphael’s Florentine period are the Madonna del Granduca
(Pitti), the Madonna del Cardellino (Ufﬁzi), the Entombment(Ga,1.
Borghese in Rome), the Predelle in the Vatican, the portraits of
Angelo and Maddalena Doni (Pitti), and the Portrait of Himself
(Ufﬂzi; p. 458). The Portrait of a Lady in the Pitti gallery is of
doubtful origin, and the Madonna del Baldacchino in the same gal—
lery was only begun by Raphael.

When Raphael went to Rome in 1508 he found a large circle

Rummy, of notable artists already congregated there. Some of these

Roma were deprived of their employment by his arrival, including

PER'OD- GIOVANNI Auromo Bazzr, surnamed Ir. Souoru (ca. 1477-

