110 LOMBARDY.

The name of the Germanic tribe that invaded Italy in 568 is now
applied to the country between the Alps and the Po, which is separated
from Piedmont by the Ticino, and from Venetia by the liincio. It is
divided into the eight provinces of Como Hilario, Pavia, Sondrio, Ber-
gamo, Crcmona, Brsscl‘a, and llantom, cove ng an area of about 9000 “1.1.,
and containing 3,713,300 inhabitants. The name was once applied to:
much larger tract. Lombardy has not ins tly been likened to an
artichoke, the leaves of which were eaten a in succession by the lord!
oi Piedmont; thus in 1427 they appropriated Vercelli, in 1531 Asti, ia i703
Val Besia, in 1706 Alessandria, in 1736 Tortona and Novara, and in ma
Domodossola. The heart of the country, it we continue to use the
similo, would then be the Drs'raior or Mil-All, or the tract lying between
the Ticino, Po, and Adda. The three zones of cultivation are the same
as in Piedmont, m. the region of pastura among the mountains, that
of the vine, fruit-trees, and the silk-culture on the lower undulating
country and the slopes adjoining the lakes, and that of wheat, maize,
and meadows in the plains, the yield of these last being, however, far
more abundant than in Piedmont. The climate of Lombardy is thoroughly
continental: winter in the plains, which are seourged by bitter winds, is
very cold (minimum at Milan, Lt" Fahr.) and abounds in snow and mist
(in 1899 at Milan snow occurred on 18 days, mist on 50)‘ while in summer
the heat is greater than that of S. ltaly (maximum at linen, 97° Fahr).
In the height of summer rain is rare beyond the lower Alps, and falls
more frequently when the wind is from the E. than from the W., asthe
moisture of the latter is absorbed by the Maritime Alps and the Apennines;
but a thorough system of irrigation without a parallel in any other part
of Europe, prevails here, so that a failure of the crops is hardly possible. In
the middle ages the importance of Milan was due to its woollen industrial,
but sheep-breeding has in modern times been largely superseded by the
silk-culture, an industry which has so materially increased the wealth oi
the country, that it used to be said during the Austrian regime that the
army and the ofﬁcers lived on mulberry leaves, as their produce alone
sufﬁced to pay the land taxes. Under these circumstances the population
is unusually dense, being about 380 persons to the sq. mile, or only I
little less dense than in Liguria and Gampania.

The central situation, and the wealth of the country, have ever rent
dered it an apple of discord to the diﬁ'crent European nations. In tht
earliest period known to us it was occupied by the Etruscan, an ltaIiu
race, which about 400 13.0 was subjugated or expelled by Cells from thn
W. These immigrants founded Medioianum (Milan), near the site 0! lb!
E'ruscan Melpum, destroyed in 896 13.0. Traces of their language etil
survive in the modern dialect of the country, as it does in the dialect
of Piedmont and Emilia. It was but slowly that the Italians subdued o
assimilated these foreigners, and it was not till 3.0. 222 that the Roman
extended their supremacy to the banks of the Po by their victory I
Clautdo'um (p. 333; In the following century Gama Oisalptna was con
stituted a province, on which Caesar conferred the rights of eitiaenshh
in 15.0. .46. Throughout the whole of the imperial epoch these region
of Northern Italy formed the chief buttress of the power of Rome. Fron
the 4th cent. on Milan surpassed Rome in extent, and, in many respects
in importance also. It became an imperial residence, and the churcl
founded here by St. Amhrosius (who was bishop of Milan in 374-97), lon
maintained its independence of the popes.

The Lombard: made Pavia their capital but their domination, afte
lasting for two centuries, was overthrown hy Charlemagne in 774 (p. 3)
The Lombard dialect also contains a good many words derived from tbt
German (thus, bran, gust, 9rd, pic, meteor, store, and slash, from thl
German Brunnen, (last, Greis, Ptlug, Messer, st'o‘ren, and stossen). Thv
crown of Lombardy was worn successively by the "ancestors and by th'
Geo-man Kings, the latter of whom, particularly the 0thos, did much tl
promote the prosperity of the towns. When the ru ture between tht
emperor and the pope converted the whole of Italy lute a Guelph an:
VGhibelline camp, Milan, the leader of the federated Lombard cities sinc

