History of Art. FLORENCE. 53. Route. 443

the modern Italian language. in 130.! he was banished with his party,
and in 1321 died at l'tavenna. Giovanni Boccacm‘o, the ﬁrst expounder of
the illustrious Dante and celebrated for his ‘Decamerone‘, which served
as a model for the ‘éanterhury Tales‘ of Chaucer, also lived at Florence.
Florence, too, was the chief cradle of the school of the Humanist: (15th
cent.), who aimed at a universal and harmonious development of the per
sonal character and whose contemplative life was far exalted above
every-day realities. This was the home of Salutalo, lionardo Brunt, and
llarsuppl'ni, the ‘Pagan‘, whose firmly moulded characters recall the per-
sonsges of antiquity; it was here that the sources of classic literature were
re—discovered by Niccolo dz‘ Niccoh‘, Tracermn’, and other enthusiastic col-
lecture of books; it was here that the Platonic Academy developed the
study of the antique into a species of religious worship, and most of the
humanists. including Flcino, Powia. Lundlni, Pica della Hirandola, and
Petition, who resided here for longer or shorter periods, received encourage-
ment and distinction at Florence. Even after the decline of ‘humanism‘
Florence continued to surpass the rest of Italy in intellectual culture, as
the names of Machiavelli, Vat-chi, Guicciardini, and Galileo testify.

In the development of the Film Anrs Florence has played so im-
portant a part, that her arbhistory is in many respects nearly coincident
with that of the whole of Italy. We therefore refer the reader to our
prefatory article on the subject, and shall now merely direct his atten-
tion to those points which more specially concern Florence. In the 13th
cent. when frequent changes of the constitution and constantly recur-
ring dissensions of factions began to take place, and when private citi-
sens for the ﬁrst time manifested an interest in public life, a general
taste for art gradually sprang up at Florence. With characteristic pride
the Florentines proceeded to erect their cathedral, which was begun by
Arnolfo dt Cambio (12324301). and in the form of their Palazzo Vecchio,
the restless aspect of their political life is distinctly reﬂected. The la-
bours of Giotto (1276-1337) entitled Florence to be regarded as the head-
quarters of the Italian ainting of the 14th cent., while the journeys under-
taken by him from Pa us to Naples were the means of rendering his style
predominant throughout the peninsula. Among Giotto‘s most distin-
guished pupils we may mention mddwand Annals Gaddi, cream, who
was also noted as an architect and sculptor. Spindle Arets'no, and Giottino.
This school ﬂourished for nearly a century. The year 1402 may be accepted
as the dawn of the Renaissascx in Florence, for from that year dates the
Abraham‘s Sacriﬁce and the com etition for the doors of the Baptistery
(p. 600). in architecture, however, I e new spirit did not ﬁnd expression until
two decades later (comp. p . 482. 408). While Brunettesclu' (1379-1M6) had
adhered to the national tradﬁions in his palatial architecture (Palazzo Pitti),
he derived numerous suggestions for his churches from a study of the
antique, particularly in the execution of details. His successors were
Leon Battieta Alberlt (“Oi-72), llidtslouo (1391-1472), Benedetto da Iajano,
and Cronaca. Stimulated by the example of the hnmanists, the artists of
this period aimed at versatility, and were not content to conﬁne their
labours to one sphere-of art; so that we frequently hear of architects who
were at the same time sculptors, and soul tors and goldsmiths who were
also painters. Among the most distinguis ed Florentine sculptors of the
Renaissance were Lorenzo Ghibsrts‘ (1378—1455), Luca delta Robbia (1399-1d82).
who has given his name to the glazed reliefs in terracotta, and above all
Donatello (1386-1466), the greatest master of the century, who exercised a
profound inﬂuence on the development of ltslian sculpture, and is justly
regarded as the precursor of Michael Angelo. The energetic life and
strong individuality of his ﬁgures are such, that their deﬁciency in grace-
fnlness is well-nigh forgotten. After Donatello‘s death, Andrea Verrocchio
1135-88), noted also as a painter (see p. 444), became the centre of a large
artistic circle. Beside these celebrated sculptors there were many of inferior
reputation, who were fully occupied both here and at Rome in the execution
>f tombstones. _

The pioneers of painting in the Renaissance period were Atacama
{MOI-w), AndreaLdel Oasth (1390-1457), and Paola Uccello (13117-1475),

