Quarters. VENICE. 42. Route. 307

On the hill at the S. end is a Cafe. Fine view of the city and
lagoon. Electric light in summer. — Steamers and gondolas, see
pp. 260, 261.

The adjacent church of SAN Grussrrs DI Cas'rnLLo (Pl. L, M, 6),
entered from the N. side of the Rio di S. Giuseppe, beyond the
bridge, contains ceiling-paintings with very eii'eetive perspective.
To the right are an altar-piece by Joe. Tintoretto, representing
Archangel Michael and Senator Mlchiel Buono, and the monument
ofDoge Merino Grimani and his wife, by Scamossi; behind the high-
altar, Adoration of the Shepherds, by Paolo Veronese; adjacent,
to the left, bust of Girolamo Grimeni by Al. Vittoria (1570).

San Pietro di Costello (P1. M, 5), a domed church on the island
of San Pietro, separated from the town by the broad Canal di S.
Pietro, an ancient foundation, was the cathedral of the Patriarch of
Venice from 1451 to 1807, when Napoleon transferred the Patriarch-
ate to St. Mark’s (p. 272). The facade, erected by Franc. Smeraldi
in 1594-96, is said to reproduce a design of Palladio(1557); the
interior was restored in 1621. Handsome campanile of 1474 rebuilt
by More Coducci, and again in the 17th century.

The Inrsnron is of little interest. Above the side-entrance on the
left is a monument of the 14th century. Between the 2nd and 3rd altars
on the right is a marble throne from Antioch, with Seracenie ornament-
ation and verses from the Koran in Cuﬂc characters. By the third altar
is a late work of Marco Baud“, representing St. Peter enthroned, with four
other saints. The high-altar, designed by Longhorns, enshriues the bones
of San Lorenzo Giustinisni (d. 1455), ﬁrst patriarch of Venice. A statue of
the saint (15th cent.) occupies a niche behind. in the left transept is the
baroque Capplella Vendramin. built by Longhm, with two alto—reliefs in
marble, by ion. Oneal-o, 17th cent.: Consecratlon by Pope Paul V. of
the Patriarch Franc. Vendrarnin as cardinal, and an allegory of death.

This was the scene of the Rape of the Venetian Maidens by the
Triestine pirates in 944, the story of which has been told by Rogers in
his ‘Brides of Venice‘. The pirates were followed and vanquished, and
he brides brought back in triumph.

f. Quarters to the West of the Canal Grands.

The Panto Rialto (Pl. G, 4; pp. 294 and 299) is a good starting-
>oint for a. visit to the quarters of the city lying W. of the Grand
lanai. Immediately beyond the bridge is (left) the Pal. de’ Camer-
mghi (p. 295]. Farther on (right) is San Giacomo di Rialio, the
ldest church in Venice, said to have been built about 520, now
estored, with interesting inscriptions on the gable. -—— In the Vege-
able Market here (Erberia; P]. G 4; p. 295) fruit is generally good
nd cheap, especially in the morning. On the farther side of the
market is a short column of Egyptian granite, to which a night
f steps ascends, home by a kneeling. ﬁgure, ‘Il Gobbo di Rialto'
16th cent.). From this column were promulgated the laws of the
“Public. — Beyond the Vegetable Market is the Pcacheria or Fish
1471662 (see p. 295). ,
20 "'

