onus. xxili

In the Non-m or Iran! the following are the best wines: the care-
fully manufactured Piedmontese brands, Bar’dlo, Nebtolo, Barbara, and
Grimm» (an agreeable table-wine) and the sparkling 4m spumastc; the
mun” wines (best Susana); the Veronese Valpols'csua, an eﬁ'ervescent
red wine; the Vincentine Harlem's» and Brogan“ (a white sweet wine);
the Paduan Boone",- in the province of Treviso, Conegliano, Raboso at“ Pine,
Prosecco, and Verdi”: in Udine, Reform; the wine of Bologna, partly from
French vineyards; Lambnuco, etc.

In Lrounra the local wines of the Val Palclrera (best Coronata) and the
Cirque Terra share the popularity of the Piedmontesc and Tuscan vintages.

In Tuscan! the best wines (almost all red) are: Chianti (best Broglio),
Rufma (best Pamino), Nipaudno, Altomena, and (Immigrants, and Alealico
(sweet). Ontario and Montspulciano are produced farther to the south. —
ln Tuscany the ordinary table-wine, which is met which all over N. Italy
under the name ‘Chianti‘, is generally served in a ‘liasoo‘, or straw-covered
ﬂask holding three ordinary bottles, but only the quantity consumed is paid
for. Smaller bottles may be obtained: mono ﬁasco (1/2), quarto ﬁasco (1].),
ﬁaschdto or -ottan'no (1/3).

Like the trattorie with ‘C’ucina alla casaltnga' (‘homely fare'),
the German, or ordinary wine-shops, are almost exclusively fre-
quented by the lower ranks. The prices are often inscribed on the
outside of the shop (‘6’, ‘7', ‘8’, meaning that half a litre costs 6,
7, or 8 soldl). Some of the better wine-rooms (Fiaschetterie) selling
Tuscan wines provide also very tolerable meals.

we: are frequented for breakfast and luncheon, and in the
ewening by numerous consumers of ices, coﬂ’ee, beer, vermouth (usu-
ally with Seltzer water), etc. The tobacco smoke is often very dense.

Cafe nero, or coﬂ‘ee without milk, is usually drunk (15-25 6. per cup).
Cafe laus is coffee mixed with milk before served (25-50 e.- ‘cappuca’no‘.
or small cup, cheaper). Chocolate (ciaocolah‘l) costs 1’5-50 c. lion (pane) 5,
with butter (pane at burn) 20 0. Cakes or biscuits (pasta) 5-16 c.

Ices (whale) of every possible variety are supplied at the cafes at -
50% c. per portion; or half a. portion (menu) may be ordered. Sorbetto,
or half-frozen ice, is much in vogue in the forenoon. Granita is water-
ice (limonala, lemon; aranciata, orange; di cafe, coffee). Gho'acoiate and
opremulo, lemonade ﬂavoured with fruit syrup, may be rcommended to
ladies. Gauasa, aérated lemonade, is also frequently ordered. The waiters
expect a sonor more, according to the amount of the payment.

The principal Parisian and Viennese newspapers (giornah’) are to be
found at all the larger cafes, English less often. Italian papers (5-10 c.)
are everywhere oti‘ered by newsvendors. The Carrier-a delta Sera (p. 114)
givea most of the foreign despatches.

Bin-aria, corresponding to the French ‘Brasseries’, are now found
in all the larger towns and chief resorts of visitors. Munich, Pilsen,
or Gratz beer may generally be procured at these. A small glass
fpiccola ((1520) costs 30-40 0., a large glass (generally holding an
mezzo litro) 50-60 c. Luncheon may usually be obtained at these.

Cigars (Sigc‘iri) in Italy are a monopoly of Government, and
usually had: Couches and Trabucos, 20 c., Minghettis, 15 c., Grimaldis,
10 c., Virginias, 71/2, 1?, or 15 c., Toscam’, Napolstam', Cavours,
71/2-10 c., etc. Good imported cigars may be bought at the better
shops in the large towns for 25-60 c. each, and also foreign cigarettes.
— Travellers who import their own cigars, paying the heavy duty,
should keep the customs receipt, as they are liable to be challenged,

