392 Route 53. savanna. East Quarters.

The Conso Gmsnrrn Gsmamr (Pl. E, F, 2-6) leads to the N.
to the Ports. Serrata (see p. 393), and to the S. to ——

Bpirito Santa (Pl. E, 3, 4; entrance in the Via Paolo Costa), or
San Teodoro, erected by Theodoric for the Arian bishops, but re-
built in the 16th century. It is a ﬂat-roofed basilica, with a vesti-
bule at the W. entrance and a Renaissance portal, and is adorned
with fourteen columns of coloured marble in the interior. In the
1st chapel on the left is an ancient marble pulpit. —The sacristan
(in the house No. 8) also keeps the key of the adjacent Baptistery
of the Arians, afterwards the oratory of Santa Maria in Commit»,
but originally the octagonal ball of a Roman bathing-establishment.

The octagonal dome is adorned with Mosaics of the 6th cent. (freely
restored): in the centre, Baptism of Christ on the left, the river-god of
the Jordan, surrounded by the Apostles. he present pavement is about
7 ft. above the original level. Several Arlen crosses are built into the
walls 01’ the Casa di Droedone, the adjoining house on the left.

In the Piazza Anita Garibaldi (p. 386) is the church of —

San Giovanni Evangelina. (Pl. F, 4), erected in 424 by the
Empress Galla Placidia in consequence of a vow made during a
voyage from Constantinople, but almost wholly rebuilt in 1747,
except the tower. The court in front has retained the form of the
ancient atrium. Above the beautiful portal of the latter (1316) are
reliefs in allusion to the foundation of the church.

The Intrusion (if closed, knock at the door), with its unpleasing barrel
vaulting, consists of nave and aisles borne by twenty-four antique columns.
The avement has been raised by about 6 ft. The vaulting of the 4th chapel
on the left is adorned with frescoes of the four Evangelists, with their
symbols above them, and the four fathers of the church, 88. Gregory, Am-
brose, Augustine, and Jerome, by Giotto (who had come to Ravenns be-
tween 1317 and 1820 on a visit to his friend Dante). In the closed chapel
of St. Bartholomew (left of choir) are remains of a rude Mosaic Pavement
of 1213, representing scenes from the Third Crusade.

‘Sant’ Apollinare Nuovo (Pl. E, 4, 5), a basilica erected after
500 by Theodoric the Great as an Arian cathedral (St. M artinus in
Costa aurco), was in 560 converted by the Archbishop St. Agnellus
into a Roman Catholic church. It has borne its present name since
the 8th or 9th century. The campanile is old. The atrium and
apse were removed in the 16th cent., but the nave still affords the
rare spectacle of a well-preserved interior decoration of the early-
Christian period. The ceiling, however, was modernized in 1611.

The Inrnnron contains twenty-four marble columns brought from
Constantinople. On the right is an ancient ambo. The walls of the nave
are adorned with interesting ‘lloraica of the 6th cent, partly of the Ariel.
and partly of the Rom. Cath. period, afterwards frequently restored (most
recently in 1898-99): on the left the town of Classis with its Roman build-
ings, the sea and ships, twenty-two virgins with the Magi (the E. half
badly restored); on the right is the city of Revenue with its churches and
the palace of Theodoric, and twenty-six saints with wreaths approaching
Christ enthroned between angels (a group which has also been freely
restored). These last mosaics betray a tendency to the showy style of the
later period, but the 18 single ﬁgures of the teachers of the church above
them, between the windows, are executed in a more independent and
pleasing manner. Above the windows, on the upper part of the wall. on
each side, are thirteen interesting compositions from the New Testament.

