274 Route 42. VENICE. a. San Marco

The Seems-rs (Sugreuia), to the left, contains some ﬁne mosaics on the
vaulting (1524). In the lunette above the door is a Madonna by Ill. L. Rim
(1530). Cabinets with intarsia work by Fm Bab. Schism, Ant. and Paolo
da Montana, etc. (1450-1520). — Crypt, see below.

To the right of the high-altar: Carranu or San Cnmun, with altar
relief of the 18th cent., representing SS. Nicholas, James, and Andrewl
and the Doge Andrea Gritti.

In the right aisle, close to the principal entrance, is the Betti-tern
(closed, 1/: fin), in the centre of which is a large font M1545. The bronze
lid, adorned with ﬁne reliefs by Tisiano Minio of Pedua and Dam of
Florence bears a bronze statue of John the Baptist by Francesco Stanza
(i565). dpposite the door, the Gothic monument of boge Andrea Dendolo
(d. 1354). The block of granite on the altar is from Mt. Tabor. 0n the
wall, to the left of the altar, is a bust of John the Baptist, of the 15th cent;
below it is the stone on which he is said to have been beheaded. The
mosaics in the vaulting date from the 13th and 14th centuries. In the
central dome, Christ commanding his disciples to baptize the Gentiles in
his name; the other mosaics are chieﬂy from the life of John the Baptist
— From the Baptistery we enter the Oappella Zeno, which is visibk
through the railing in the entrance-vestibule. In the centre rises the
handsome ‘Monument of Cardinal Giunbattista Zeno (d. 1501), entirely in
bronze, designed like the altar by A]. Leopardi and Ant. Lombardo (1501-19);
on the sarcophagus is the ﬁgure of the cardinal, over lifesize; below are
six Virtues by Paolo Supine. The handsome altar and canopy are also
cost in bronze, with the exception of the frieze and the bases of the
columns. Over the altar are groups in bronze, of the ‘Madonna (‘dellr
Scarpa‘), by Ant. Lombardo (1515), and St. Peter and John the Baptist, bl‘
P. Sarina,- above, a relief of God the Father, executed by Ant. Lombardo;
on the altar itself, a relief of the Resurrection. To the right and led.
two lions in coloured marble.

In the right transept is the entrance to the Treasury ( Term-o di San
Marco,- open daily, except festivals, 122; 25 0.; see p. 273): in front, an
episcopal throne of the 7th cent., with symbolical rel efs, said to be from
Grade (p. 830); in a glass-case to the lett, valuable Byzantine book~covsrs.
On the table to the left, two Gothic candelabra (15th cent); adjacent, to
the right, bust of John the Baptist, perhaps of the 11th cent. (7). By the
rear—wall is an antependium in beaten silver (14th cent.). In the cabinets
are the sword of the Doge Morosini (p. 267), sumptuous church-furniture,
works in rock-crystal, agate, and turquoise.

The crypt, recently restored, is one of the oldest parts of the ediﬁce
(entr. from the Sacristy). It contains a multitude of short columns of
Greek marble, and in the "middle is an enclosure with marble railings of
the early-Christian period. (See Robertson‘s ‘Bible of St. Mark‘.)

The visitor is strongly recommended to walk round the Gmrnr in-
side the church in order to ins ect the mosaics more closely. Ascent
from the principal portal (adm. De.). The gallery outside the church
should then be visited for the purpose of examining the bronze horses.

In the Piazzetts dei Leoni, on the N. side of St. Mark‘s, under
the arch of the transept, is the marble sarcophagus, borne by lions,
ofDam’sle Mania (p. 267; d. at Paris, 1857). — Beyond this is the
Page??? Patriarcale, occupied by the Archbishop since 1807 (comp.
p. .

0n the S. side of the church are two short square Pilate",
with Greek inscriptions, brought in 1256 from the church of St. Saba
at Ptolemais (6th cent), which was destroyed by the Venetians.
From the Pietra dcl Bando, a block of porphyry at the S.W. corner,
the decrees of the Republic were promulgated. Two curious Beliefs
in porphyry, immured by the entrance to the Palace of the Dogcs,
represent two pairs of ﬁgures with sword and mantle embracing

