f. Santa Mam Novella. FLORENCE. 58. Route. 603

the ladonna; adjoining the windows are SS. Francis and Peter the lartyr,
the Annunciation, and John the Baptist, and below all these, Giovanni
Tombuoni and Francesca Pitti (p. 475), his wife, at whose expense these
works were executed. —- 0n the left wall, in seven sections, is represented
the life of lary: Expulsion of Joachim from the Temple, Nativity of
Mary (the architecture of the interior beautithlly enriched), Visit to the
Temple, Ber Nuptials, Adoration of the Magi, Massacre of the Innocents,
and. Her Death and Assumption. —— The right wall is devoted to the life
of John the Baptist. The ﬁrst scene, Zacharias in the Temple, is celebrated
for the number of portraits which are introduced in a remarkably easy
and lifelike manner. The ﬁgures below to the left are said to be portraits
of Crietoforo Landini, Angelo Poliziano, and Marsilio Ficino, distinguished
scholars and humanists. The other scenes are the Visitation, Nativity of
John, the Naming of the child, the Baptist preaching repentance (in which
the master shows his art in grouping and individualising the ﬁgures).
Baptism of Christ, and Dancing of the Daughter of Herodias. Several of
these works are defaced almost beyond recognition. — The stained glass
(“92) was executed by Alessandro Ftorenh’no. — The choir-stalls are by
Baccto d’Ango, restored by Vacant At the back of the altar is a ’Brass
to the memory of Lionardo Dati (d. 1424) by Lor. Ghiberts'.

The Cnsrn to the left of the choir, by Giuliano do Sangallo contains
the celebrated wooden ‘Cruciﬂx of Brunsllssclu' which gave rise to the rivalry
between him and his friend Donatello (thO). — The following Gabon
Charla, by 0. A. Doria, is adorned with has-reliefs by (ﬂow. dall‘ Opera.

Lar‘r Tasman. The 81301:: CHAPEL, to which steps ascend, contains
celebrated ‘Frescoes with numerous figures, of the School of Giotto: opposite
the entrance, the Last Judgment (figure of Dante praying, among the elect,
to the left in the top row); (1.) Paradise, over the ﬁgures in which broods
a truly celestial repose, by Andrea Orcavna: Hell (r.) according to Dante,
by Andrea‘s brother Bernardo,- altar-piece, Christ with SS. Thomas Aquinas
and Peter, completed in 1857, by Andrea. — The next door, in the corner,
leads to the Swine", the most interesting object in which is a fountain
by Gian. delta Robbin (1‘97), a magniﬁcent work of its kind. In the is: case
on the left are some tine Spanish vestments of the 14th century.

A door to the right of the steps to the Strozzi Chapel (opened by the
sacrietan; 80-50 (3.) admits to the so-called Bepolcrelo, or burial vault, with
an open colonnade and frescoes of the 14th century. To the left we enter
the Ancient Cloisters, called 11 Clxiouro Verde, restored in 1896. The E.
wall is adorned with old and much injured frescoes in terra verde (different
shades of green). Those in the three ﬁrst lunettes, representing the Creation,
the Expulsion from Paradise, Cain and Abel, and the Building of the Ark.
are by followers of Giotto (7). The Deluge, in which the artist has depicted
with great power the helplessness of man in presence of the fury of the
elements, in the fourth lunette, and the Offering and Drunkenness of Noah,
are b Paolo Uncello (about 1M6). —- To the right (NJ in the cloisters is
the ‘ appella dcgii Bpagnuoli (best light, 1042), formerly the chapter-
houso, and bearing its resent name because assi ned to the Spanish
residents of Florence in i . It was built about 136 and restored in 1595.
The frescoes (restored) of Giotto‘s School are attributed by Vasari to Toddeo
Gaddi and Simone Martini (7) but by more modern critics to Andrea du
Firms. Most of them are merely second-rate works though interesting
to the student of art. Their subjects follow the doctrines of Thomas
Aquinas, the great Dominican saint. On the wall of the altar is a large
and crowded painting of the Crucifixion, and below it, to the left, Bearing
of the Cross, to the right, Christ in Hades; on the ceiling, the Resurrection,
Ascension, Descent of the Holy Ghost, Christ and Peter on the water.
On the E. side (r.) the Church Militant and Triumphant, suggested by
Thomas Aquinas‘s commentary on the Song of Solomon: beneath, to the
left, in front of the cathedral of Florence (an ideal representation of the
then unﬁnished building), appear the pope with his flock and the members
of the church, and the emperor with the representatives of secular Power;
to the right, the heretics are represented as wolves hunted by the Dominicans
in the form of black and white dogs (‘Domini canes‘), also their conversion;

