Cmo saute. - PISA. 56. Route. 409

Pelnﬁnp. To the right of the chapel, on the E. WALL: Cruciﬁxion,
Ascension, the Doubting T“ , and Row: “ , by L? " o/ Giotto
[Nth cent), said by Vnuri to be Buialmacw. All these have been repainted.

0n the S. Wan: “Triumph of Death: to the left are represented the
retired life of the pious hermit and the worldliness of the wealthy who
on their way to the chase are suddenly reminded by three open cofﬁns of
the transitoriness of humen pleasures; in the centre is Death, invoked
in vain by the poor and wretched, above are devils bearing away the
souls of the decessed to a ﬁery punishment; to the right. the stems]
happiness of the blessed, who ere seated in a garden, beneath pomegranate
tress; above are angels with the souls of the redeemed. Next are the
’Lsst Judgment (attitude of the Judge celebrated and imitated even by
Fr: Bartolomeo and Michael Angelo) and Hell (lower halfentirely repainted).
These three ere attributed by Vasari to Andrea Orcapna, but modern critics
believe that they were executed about 1350 by Pisan masters (perhaps
Franc. Traint). The following fresco, representing the Life (temptations
and miracles) of the holy hermits in the Thebnn wilderness, which Vasari

ascribes to Pietro Lorenzem of Siena, is by on unidentiﬁed hand. Above
the entrance is s'lfadonna ‘in excelsis‘ by I. Traini. —— Between the two
tntrances, the life of St. Bainerus, the tuteiery saint of Pisa. The four
lpper scenes (conversion from a worldly life, journey to Palestine, victory
War temptation, retirement to a monastery) were completed by Andrea
la ﬁres-u in 1377 (of which there is documentary proof, though Vasari
ttributes them to Simone Martini of Siena). The four lOWer and better-
xecutsd scenes (return from Palestine, miracles, death, and removal of
vis body to the cathedral of Pisa, the last much injured) were pointed
y Antonio Vsneu‘ano in 1386-7. -— Then, sbove, scenes from the life of
t. Ephesus (who as a Roman general, ﬁghting against the heathens,
aceives a ﬂag of victory from the Archangel Michael, but is afterwards
Jndemned and executed); below, scenes from the life of St. Potitus,
imirably portrayed by Spineuo Arettno in 1391, but now almost obliterated.
Lastly, the history of Job, by Francesco do Volterm (erroneously attributed
Giotto), begun in 1370, in bed preservation.

0n the W. Want. no paintings of importance.

0n the N. WALL the history of Genesis: ﬁrst the Creation (God the
lther holding the world in both hsnds, ‘il mappamondo’); then in the
titer series, Creation of Man, the Fall, Ex ulsion from Paradise, Coin
d Abel, Building of the Ark, Deluge, an Noah‘s Sacriﬁce, by Pietro
Puccio of Orvieto about 1390 (erroneously attributed by Vassri to
fahnaaco). — The lower series and all the following paintings on the N.
ill ere by Banana Gouoli of Florence (1469-86), twenty-three Representations
un the Old Testament, ndmirnhly executed ‘n tempera‘ and important in
nstrations of the manners of the painter‘s contemporaries: Noah‘s Vintage
lDrunkenness (with the ‘ Vargoonosa dr' Pim‘, or scandalised female
ctator), the Curse of Him the Tower of Babel (with portraits of
xtemporory celebrities, Cosimo de‘ Medici, his son Pietro, and his
ndsons Lorenzo and Giulisno), the History of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob
l Esau, Joseph, Moses and Aaron, Fell of the Wells of Jericho, History
David, Solomon end the Queen of Sheba; these last much injured.
9 first of these frescoes, the Vintage, is the moat pleasing composition,
the moorstriking one for the richness of its episodes, its architecture,
its landscape. In the midst of the short-comings of the others, however,
:ozzo hes moments of luck, and they reveal occasional pretty episodes
fair bits of composition‘ (6'. it 0.). BenOzzo‘s tomb is in the pave-
it, below the Nereid Barcophsgus, No. XXVIII.

Sculpture. and lonumsnta. W. Ens. In the corner to the left, Etruscan
: on a column. Then, No. 7. Ancient palm frieze with dolphins, the
C carved in the 13th century. -— XI. Ancient sarco hagus, perhaps
innlly a. bath. —- Monument of Carlo Mossotti (1791-1 68), the natural
osorher, by Dupré. Behind, Monument (No. 4.8) of Count della Gherar-
a ( 4th cent.) and Monument (6(3) of Emp. Henry VII. of Luxembourg,
actor of Pisa as a partisan of the Ghibellines (d. 1313 at Bnonconvento),
."t'no d6 Guanine of Siena (1315), originally erected in the apse of the

 

