liv ITALIAN ART.

undertook. He regarded careful physical training as scarcely lesl
important than comprehensive culture of the mind; the vigour 0:
his imagination served also to stimulate the exercise of his intellect-
and his minute observation of nature developed his artistic taste and
organ of form. One is frequently tempted to regard Leonardo'l
works as mere studies, in which he tested his powers, and whicl
occupied his attention so far only as they gratiﬁed his love 0
investigation and experiment. At all events his personal impor-
tance has exercised a greater inﬂuence than his productions a
an artist, especially as his prejudiced age strenuously sought t4
obliterate all trace of the latter. Few of Leonardo’s work
have been preserved in Italy, and these sadly marred by neglect
A reminiscence of his earlier period, when he wrought unde
Arman Vsnoccmo at Florence, and was afellow-pupil of L0-
nBNzo in Guam, is the Annunciation in the Ufﬂzi (p. 465) , if i
be a genuine work. Several oil-paintings, portraits (e. g. the tw.
ilne works in the Ambrosiana at Milan, p. 134), Madonnas, am
imaginative works are attributed to his Milan period, althougl
careful research inclines us to attribute them to his pupils. Un-
adulterated pleasure may, however, be taken in his drawings i]
the Ambrosiana, the Venice Academy (p. 286), and the Ufﬂzi. Tw-
unﬂnished paintings, the Adoration of the Magi in the Ufﬂzi (p. 464:
which bears ample testimony to the fertility of his imagination, an:
the St. Jerome in the Vatican, afford an insight into his technique
The best idea of his reforms in the art of colouring is obtained b
an attentive examination of the works of the Milan school (Luna
Smmo; p. 117), as these are far better preserved than the onl
undoubted work of Leonardo’s Milan period in Italy: the Las
Supper in Santa Maria delle Grazie (p. 136). Although now a ton
wreck, it is still well calculated to convey an idea of the net
epoch of Leonardo, especially to those who have studied Morghen’
engraving of the picture. The spectator should ﬁrst examine th
delicate equilibrium of the composition, and observe how the in
dividnal groups are complete in themselves, and yet simultaneousl
point to a common centre and impart a monumental character 1:
the work; then the remarkable physiognomical ﬁdelity whic'
pervades every detail, the psychological distinctness of characte]
and the dramatic life, together with the calmness of the entir
bearing of the picture. He will then comprehend that withLeomu-d,
a new era in Italian painting was inaugurated, that the devel
opment of art had attained its perfection.

The accuracy of this assertion will perhaps be doubted by th
amateur when he turns from Leonardo to Michael Angelo (1475
can", 1564). On the one hand he hears Michael Angelo extolle

ANOll-O- as the most celebrated artist of the Renaissance, whil

on the other it is said that he exercised a prejudicial inﬂuenc
on Italian art, and was the precursor of the decline of sculpt“;

