376 Route 51. BOLOGNA. Em Quarters:

To the left: ‘1. Franc. Honda, Harri e of St. Cecilia with the
agan nobleman Valerian; 2. Lor. Costa, St. Ur anus converting Valerian:
. Cu. Tamar-acct, Baptism of Valerian; 4. G. H. Chtodarola, Angel Crown-

ing SS. Cecilia and Valerian; 5. Arm’co Arperlim’ Martyrdom of SS. Valerian
and Tiburtius. —- To the right: 1. Am. swim, Burial of as. Velerhn
and Tiburtins, with the Castle of Sant‘ Angelo in the background (much
injured); 2. Chtodarolo, Vindication of St. Cecilia before the Roman pre-
fect; 3. Tamarocci, Martyrdom of St. Cecilio in the oil-cask; '4. Costa.
St. Cecilia bestowing aims; 5. Fr. Francia, Burial of St. Cecilia.

Opposite, on the left side of the street, is the Teatro Oomunalt
(P1. 60; F, 4), see p. 362. — On the right is the —

University (Pl. G, 3, 4; comp. p. 364), established since 1803
in the old Palasw Poggi, which was built by Pellegrino Tibaldi and
has a court by Bart. Triachini. lt possesses ﬁve faculties audit
attended by about 1600 students. It is well provided with scien-
tiﬁc collections (open on Sun.), the most notable of which are the
anatomical collection and the collection of minerals. The Town

(1720), containing the observatory, aﬁ'ords a ﬁne view.

The extensive Library (adm., see p. 363) contains about 211,0“) vols.
and 5000 M38. Among the M88. are the oldest codex of Lactantius, I
Dante MB. of the 14th cent, letters from Voltaire to Frederick the Great.
etc. The celebrated linguist Giuseppe Mmofarm' (born at Bologna in 1776
died at Naples in 1849), was once librarian here. At the age of% he
is said to have spoken 18 languages ﬂuently, and at the time of his death
no fewer than A2. '

The Geological Museum (Pl. 6, H, 3), Via Luigi Zamboni 65, contain
interesting fossils from the neighbourhood of Bologna. a collection of pre-
historic anthropologieal curiosities, etc. Director, Prof. Capellim'.

We next proceed to the old Jesuits’ College, containing the —
"Accademia di Belle Arti (Pl. G, 3). 0n the groundﬁoor are
casts and works of modern art. 0n the ﬁrst ﬂoor (L) is the valuable
*Pmrunn GALLERY, or Reale Pinacotcca. Adm., see p. 363 (ticket-
ofﬁce on the ﬁrst ﬂoor). Catalogue (1900), 2 fr. Director, Prof.

A. Guadagnini.

The visitor imbued with the modern taste for the eriod of the Be-
naissance will ﬁnd little attraction in the works of the anus-nix“ Cas-
runr, which form the chief boast of this gallery. Although it would be
unfair to depreciate the undoubted talent and skill of these late masters,

. their works are unsatisfacto owing to the absence of any deﬁnite aim or
indication of progress, snaffrom the obvious pains which have been taken
to reproduce trite themes in an interesting manner. In the department
of fresco-painting the works of these Bolognese eclecties (see p. 865) are
most numerous at Rome but they are admirably represented here by a
series of oil-paintings. 7We may ﬁrst mention several works by Guido
Rem‘, the most talented master of this school: No. 134, Madonna dell:
Piete remarkable for its masterly grouping, which again occurs in No. 186,
the Cruciﬁxion, and places these two pictures on a level with the
ﬁnest werks of the 16th cent. in point of composition; No. 135, the
Massacre of the Innocents, exceptionally harmonious and digniﬁed In
character; No. 189, Sant‘ Andrea Corsini, an excellent specimen of Gnido‘s

owers as s. colourist; No. 142 o masterly drawing in chalks for the Bees

omo which was so popular in the 17th century. The most interesting
work of Ludovico Carracci is probably No. 45, the Nativity of the Baptist.
Aum'bale Cary-acct“: Madonna and saints (No. 36) has the merit of stately
architectural arrangement. The Communion of St. Jerome (N0. 34) by
Aymmw Caﬂacﬂ' is very inferior to Domenichino‘s treatment of the same
subject in the Vatican. Domenichino‘s scenes of martyrdom are far from

