282 Route 42. VENICE. a. Hana of St. Mark.

busts of Roman emperors (the best Vitellins, opposite the entrance). In the
centre are Venetian medals, etc. — We now pass in a straight direction
into the —

V. R00): (Sela dei Bronzi), with chimney—piece and magniﬁcent ceiling
of the 16th century. Small sculptures in marble, bronze, and ivory. Dies
for Venetian coins. Greek vases. E ptian antiquities.

VI. Roots (Stanza degli Stueehi), ecorated, like R. VII, with stucco
reliefs of the 18th century. Show-cases with Venetian coins. By the
window, a narwhal-horn, with carvings. - To the right is the -

Vll. Roost (Sala dei Filosotl), which contains a collection of Roman
coins. From the steps of the staircase by the right wall we see an
interesting ‘Fresco of St. Christopher, by Man, painted about 15%. In
the wall of an adjacent corridor is a memorial of the monument of Thomas
Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk, who was banished by Richard II. The Duke
died at Venice in 1399 and was buried in the vestibule of San Marco (p. 272).
His body was removed to England in 1533, while his monumental tombstone
remained in aim till 1840 when it also was taken to England. — The door
in the N.E. corner of this room leads to the —

VIII.-X. Rooxs (Btanze del Doge). Round the walls of the tirst room
(Stanza. Gialla) are bronze sculptures of the Renaissance: Al. Vittoria, Best
of Dogs Seb. Venier; Ant. Lombardoﬂ), Assumption and Coronation ot
the Virgin, reliefs from the destroyed monument of the Doges Marco and
Agost. Barbarigo in the Carith; Riccto (7), Four reliefs from the legend of
the Holy Cross, and (opposite) Tabernacle door from the church of St. Sewn!
(destroyed in 1812); Riceioﬂ), St. lax-tin; (Jamie's, Battle-scenes. W
Lumbardo, Double relief-portrait in marble; Doge‘s hat (corno dueale). In
the show-cases are plaquettes by Paar-alto, llama ds‘ Pam. Bperands‘o Lem
Lem-i, and others; Venetian coins. In the middle, coins (osellei from
Murano, ivory reliefs, and cameos (among them, Zens Aigiochos). —- In
the next room (Stanza Grigia) is a chimney-piece by Pietro Lombardomr
Antiquities: opposite the windows, Rape of Ganymede, a Roman work,
freely restored; Leda with the Swan; Apollo. By the exit-well, three
'Conquered Gauls, resembling the Dying Gladiator at Rome and connected
with similar statues at Naples and Rome, ancient copies of the groups
erected on the Acropolis of Athens by Attalus 1., King of Pergamus, about
B.C. 239. after his victory over the Gauls at Sardes. Cupid bending his
bow, perhaps after Lysippus. — The third room (Stanza Azzurra) also
contains ancient marbles including the lower part of a colossal seated
female ﬁgure, of the Angustan or Hellenistic period. Two Roman
tripod—bases with armed Cnpids. Above is a. faded fresco of the Madonna
and two angels, by Titian. —- We now pass through the Sela dello Scude
into the — .

XI. Roots (m dei “ ﬂed). " ‘ ".ll, ‘- " ‘ 'y to
the right, Fragment ofa Greek tomb-relief. Farther on, “Fragment of an
Attic frieze of a naval battle, belonging to the similar relief mentioned at
p. 202; above it, Front of a child's sarcophagus, with the story of Cleobis
and Biton, restored at the top and bottom. In the corner, Square Altar,
perhaps of the 3rd cent. 8.0., with charming representations of aatyrs.
On the exit-wall in the middle, Front of a Roman sarcophagus, represent-
ing the death of1 the children of Niobe; to the left, Warrior sacriﬁcing.

We now descend the staircase and beyond the Seals dei Censorl
(p. 277) pass through the second door to the right (marked ‘Prigi—
oni“), from which a narrow passage leads to the lofty Bridge at
Highs (Ponte dei Sospiri; Pl. H, 5), which was constructed by
Ant. Contino in 1595-1605 and connects the Palace of the
Doges with the Carccri or Prigiom‘ Criminali, built in 1571-97 by
Gian. da Ponte. These, the prison for ordinary criminals, are still
in use, while the notorious Piombi, or prisons under the lesden mat
of the Palace, were destroyed in 1797. A staircase descends from

0

