e Como. couo. 20. Route. 149

winter); fares, up 11/1, down 1, up and down 2th, before 8a.m., with
return by any train, 1 fr.

Como (705 it), a ﬂourishing industrial town, the capital of a
province, and the see of a bishop, with 38,174 inhab. and large silk-
iactories and dye-works, lies at the S.W. end of the Lake of Come,
and is enclosed by an amphitheatre of mountains. The small stream
Costa enters the lake here. Como is the Roman Comum, the birth-
place ofthe elder and younger Pliny. The electrician and philosopher
Volta (1745-1826; whose Statue by P. Marchesi is in the Piazza
Volta, to the S.W. of the quay), was born at Como in the house
marked ‘Gasa Volta.’ on the Plan.

The Ram Cacour, a large square near the harbour, and the
new streets skirting the harbour to the E. and W. of it are the most
animated parts of the town. A short street leads to the SE. from
the Piazza Cavour to the Piazza del Duomo. To the left of the
cathedral is the Broutto (now a public office), constructed of alter-
nate courses of black and white stone, and completed in 1215.

The ‘Ca'rmm, built entirely of marble, is one of the best
in N. Italy. The nave was rebuilt in the Gothic style about 1396,
the facade in 1457-86 (by Luchino da Milano); and in 1487-1626
the transepts. choir, and exterior of the nave were altered in the
Renaissance style by Tommaso Rodari. The S. portal (1491) is
built in Bramante’s style by an unknown architect; the modern
dome is by Fit. Java/m. The greater part of the sumptuous plastic
ornamentation is by Tomm. Rodari and his brother Jacopo. Over
the magniﬁcent W. portal are reliefs (Adoration of the Magi) and
Btatnettes (Mary with Sant’ Abbondio and San Protus etc.); at the
sides are statues of the two Plinys, erected in 149g. The over-

deeorated N. portal (Porta della Rana) dates from 1505-9.
Iurzmon. The heavy and gaudy vaulting, restored in 1838, destroys
“1c eﬁ‘ect of the ﬁne ropertions, which resemble those of the Certosa
near Pavia (p. 144). - o the right of the entrance is the monument of
Cardinal Tolomco Gallic (1861). Farther on, to the right, second altar, with
handsome wood-carving, and scenes from the life of St. Abondius (i614);
adjoining (1.) the ’Adoration of the Magi, by Bern. Mini, and (r.) the
Flight into Egypt, by Gaud. Ferrari. Over the third altar, a Madonna by
3.14mi In the Cnora, the Apostles, by Pompeo larcheu. The Sacxrsrr
contains pictures by Guido Rent, Paolo Veronue ('0, etc. Fine statue of
Bi. Sebastian (1481) in the N. Truman. In the Len Arena: at the ﬁrst
altar, Entombment by Tommato Rodart (1498); at the second altar, l.
G. Pen-art, Nuptials of the Virgin, r. B. Lutnt, Nativity; by the third altar, the
trusts of Pope Innocent XI. (Odescalchi) and Carlo Bovelli, Bishop of Como.

In the Via Vittorio Emanuele, which runs S.W. from the oath-
edral, is the rear of the Romanesque church of San Pedals, with a
ﬁne pentagonal apse. The chief facade of the church, in the Piazza
dc Mercato, is as little worthy of attention is the completely mod-
ernized interior. — The Patazzo Gtovio, on the left, at the end of
the street, contains the Mum) L‘ivico, opened in 1897 (adm. daily
except Tnea., 10-4, 50 c., Frid. 1 in; catalogue 1 fr. .

0n the ﬁrOnndﬂoor are memorials of Volta and o Cesare Canth
(1307-95) the istorian; views-of Como, etc. -— 0n the ﬁrst ﬂoor are pre-

