390 Route 53. RAVENNA. ‘ N orthem

the poet‘s teachers and patrons (Virgil, Brunette Latini, Can Grands della
Souls, and Guido do Polenta); opposite the entrance is a half-length relief of
Dante, and below it a sarcophagus, a marble urn in which now contains the
poet‘s remains. It bears an epitaph composed by Bays. Canaccio in 13157: —

Jura Konarchiae, Super“, Phlegethonta lacusque
Dustrando cscim', voluerunt fata quourquc,

Sod quid para cem’t mlioribu: hasps'ta mum,
A(u)ctor¢mqua mum pelt“ felicior astris,

Hie claudor Danica, patrt‘i: wtorris ab art’s,
Quem genus? parm‘ Florencia mater amort'a.

A marble slab opposite the tomb indicates the site of the house
in which Guido da Polenta entertained the poet (1317). -— To the
'right of the tomb is the so-called Scpolcrcto di Braccioforte, a small
court with eleven Early Christian Sarcophagi, some of which, how-
ever, were found elsewhere. The largest (4th cent.) has a represen—
tation of Christ between St. Peter and St. Paul, with the Annun-
ciation and Visitation at the sides. The remains of Dante, which
had been lost sight of in 1810, were rediscovered here in 1865.

SAN Mrcmann IN Armcrsco (P1. 20, D 4; entrance, Via Rattazzi 7).
erected in the 6th cent., is now destroyed with the exception of the
apse and the campanile (15th cent). -—- Near by is the Tom
Comunalc (P1. 42, D, 3), a tower of the 11th or 12th cent., 130 ft. high.

SAN Donmco (Pl. C, 3, 4), a basilica founded in 1269 and
rebuilt by G. B. Coniim‘ about 1700, is adorned with four paintings
by N. Rondinelli. — In the Via Cura, to the S. of the Ports Adriana,
is the picturesque church of Santi Giownni e Paolo (Pl. B, 3, 4), of
ancient foundation, but rebuilt by Dom. Barbiani in 1758; the
lower part of the tower belonged to the original ediﬁce. An ambo
of 596 in the interior resembles that in the cathedral (p. 387).

'Ban Vitals (Pl. 0, 3) was erected under the superintendents
of Julianne Argentarius by Archbp. Ecclesius (521-534) on the spot
where St. Vitalis suil'ered martyrdom, and was consecrated by St.
Maximian in 547. It was probably originally the court-church,
and served as a model to Charlemagne for the cathedral of Air.-
la-Chapelle. The church is octagonal (37% yds. in diameter), with
a choir, three-sided on the exterior, and round in the interior,
added to it on the E. side. The vestibule adjoining the church
obliquely on the W. side was originally ﬂanked by two towers, of
which that on the N. was pulled down in 1539, while that on the S.
was replaced at an early date by a campanile, restored in 1688.

The lnrsmoa, remodelled in 1580-40, was restored by Con-ado Rice!"
in 1898-1W0 and freed from inappropriate additions, with the exception of
the baroque frescoes by Seraﬂnc Barozzr' and others in the dome. It is
divided by eight massive pillars into a central space and a surrounding
ambulatory. Between the pillars are semicircular niches with pairs of
columns and arches, in two series, one above the other, over which rise!
the dome. constructed of earthen vessels. Each of the windows in the
dome is divided by a mullion into two round-arched lights. The lower
parts of the pillars are still incrusted with their original coating of rare
marble (‘Ail‘ncauo‘). The upper columns have capitals of several pieces.
the lower columns ﬂue trapezium-capitals (perhaps the earliest in Ravenna).
The pavement has been raised about 21/; ft. in the course of centuries.

