312 Route 42. VENICE. f. Western Quarters:

and colour with magic light and shade. . . . Far away from those humble
conceptions of place which mark the suintly pictures of earlier times, the
Pesnri kneel in the portico of a temple, the pillars of which soar to the
sky in proportions hitherto unseen. . . . The Virgin sits on her throne,
bending down in a graceful kindly way, and directs her glance towards
the kneeling ‘Baﬂ‘o‘ (Jacopo Pesaro, Bishop of Paphos) her white veil
falling over one shoulder, but caught on the other by the infant Christ
who peeps with delightful glee from beneath it at St. Francis (behind
whom, in the background, is St. Anthony of Padua). . . . To the left front
of the throne St. Peter at a desk interrupts his reading, and marks the
line with his ﬁnger as he turns to look down at Bell'o, who kneels in
prayer on the ﬂoor below. in the rear between both an armed knight
with the standard of the church unfurled and a captive Turk bound by
a rope symbolizes the victory of the Pesari. Below to the right, are
Benedetto Pesaro and the members of his family (C. i 0.).

Monument of Doge Giov. Pesaro (d. 1669), of a rich baroque archi-
tectural character, occupying the entire wall, with ﬁgures or negroes as
bearers, by Melchior Barthel and Longhorns. Mausoleum of Geneva (d. 1822),
'prt‘ncipi sculptorum aetam mae‘, erected in 1827 from the master‘s own
design for Titian‘s monument, executed by Canova's pupils. — By the
entrance-wall, to the right of the principal portal, the tomb of Pietro Ber-
nardo (d. 1538), executed about 1520 by Tulh’o Lombm'do, with ﬁgures of
Christ, St. Peter, and the deceased: ‘nothing can he more detestable or
mindless in general design, or more beautiful in execution‘ (Ruskin).
Adjacent, in the left aisle (above), the unpretentious monument of Simone
Dandolo (d. 1360), by the Massey»: (1396).

In the Nave s. high screen oi marble, covered with two series of
reliefs and with statues and two pulpits on the front, separates the monks‘
choir from the rest of the church. Elegantly carved stalls, by ”area do
Vienna, 1468, semi-Gothic in style.

The adjacent monastery contains the Archives of Venice, one of
the most magniﬁcent collections of the kind in the world, compris-
ing about 14 million documents, the earliest of which dates from
883. They are deposited in 298 diﬁerent apartments (open on
week—days, 10-1130 55130-3). - In this neighbourhood is the
Scuons DI SAN GIOVANNI EVANGELIBTA (P1. E, 4), founded in the
14th cent., but entirely modernized. One side of the handsome
old vestibule in the style of the Lombardi (1481) is still preserved.

Beyond the Archives is the church of Ban Rocco (Pl. D, E, 4, 5),
built in 1490 and restored in 1725, with a facade of 1771 by Macca-
ruzui. Like the adjacent Scuola di S. Rocco, which we visit in con-
nection with it, it contains numerous pictures by Tintoretto. (These
are all described by Mr. Ruskin in the ‘Venetian Index’ of ‘Stones
of Venice’.)

0n the right, the Annunciation, beyond it, the Pool of Bethesda,
and above the latter, St. Rochus in the wilderness, all by Ttntoreuo.
Chapel to the right of the choir: mm, Christ dragged to Golgotha,
ascribed by Vasari to Giorgione; in the lunette, Andrea Sehs'ame God
the Father. In the choir, to the right, St. Bochus in the hospital above,
St. Rochus healing animals, to the left above, Capture of St. hochus
below, Angel appearing to the saints in prison, all by Tintorsuo. Behin
the entrance to the sacristy, to the left, Pordenons, 'St. Sebastian, in fresco.

0n the left side of the church, Furm‘ant, Expulsion of the mone -changers
from the Temple; above it, Pordenone, St. Christopher and t. Martin.

In the alloy to the left of the church is the entrance to the
*Scuola di San Rocco (Pl. D, E, 5), the house of the Fraternity of
St. Rochus, built in 1524-50 from the designs of Bart. Buon of

