428 Route 57. PBATO. From Pisa

‘Kndonna dell’ Umilth (Pl. B, 3), with an unﬁnished facade,
erected in 1494-1509 by Venture Vitoni, a pupil of Bramante. A
ﬁne vestibule, with barrel-vaulting on each side of a central dome
(as in the Cappella de’ Paul, 1). 480), leads to the handsome oc-
tagonal interior, with its graceful COrinthisn wall-pilasters. The
dome is by Vasari.

In the Corso Umberto Prime, in the 8. part of the city, is -—

San Domenico (Pl. 0, 3), a monastic church erected in 1380.

INTERIOR (closed after 8a.m.-, ring at the house on the right). The
frescoes at the 2nd nltar on the right (Madonna and Child) and the 2nd
alter to the left Cruciﬁxion, with the Virgin, St. John, and St. Thomas
Aquinas) are by a Paulina du Hstoja. Beween the 4th and 6th Altars on
the left, monument of the jurist Filippo anzsri (d. 1412), by Ben. and All.
Rosullino (1462-68). —Right Transept: Cappclla Roopialtm, with the miracle
of S. Carlo Borromeo, by Jacopo da Empoll, Ind two tombs (16% and 1660)
attributed to Bernini.

Farther on in the same street, to the left, is the church of
SAN PAOLO, with a Gothic facade, burned out in 1901. —_ In this
neighbourhood is the church of SAN PIETBO (Pl. 4; D, 3), with an
early-Tuscan exterior (unﬁnished), in which as late as the 16th
cent. the mystic marriage of the Bishop of Plstoja and the Abbess of
the Benedictine convent was celebrated. The interior has been
modernized. In the right transept is a Madonna and saints by
Gerino da Pistoja (1509). — The Viale dell’ Arcadia (Pl. D, 1-3)
commands a beautiful view of the city and the Apennines.

The Biblioteca Fabbram‘ana (Pl. 6; B, 2) and the Bibliatsca Forth
gum-i (Pl. 7; B, C, 2) were founded by two cardinals who were
born here.

The Villa Men's“, 1“; M. to the N. of Pistoja, has beautiful gardens
and sculptures by Pampn oni and others. — The church of Grmolc‘, 5 I.
to the W. of Pistoja, contains a pulpit of 1194, with stiﬂ‘ old reliefs.

The Burma in FLORENCE intersects a rich tract at the base
of the Apennines. 461/2 M. Montaic-Agliana. 0n the left the pictur-
esque castle of Montemurlo comes into view, near which the Floren-
tine republicans Baccio Valori and Filippo Strozzi were defeated
and taken prisoners by the troops of Cosimo I. in 1537.

52 M. Prato in Toscana (210 ft.; Alb. Giardino, Via Magnolﬁ;
Cam'otti, Piazza del Duomo; Gaffe di Marie, Piazza del Duomo), a
well-built town of 51,264 inhsb., on the Biamzio, with beautiful
environs, is a manufacturing place, of which straw—plait is one of

:the staple commodities, and is also noted for its excellent bread and
biscuits (biscotti, cantucci). It formerly belonged to Florence, whose
fortunes it shared throughout the middle ages. In 1512 it was taken
by storm by the Spaniards under Cardons.

In the 15th cent. this small provincial town attracted numerous Floren-
tine artists, so that a visit to it is indispensable to those who desire to
be thoroughly acquainted with the East! Bunsen“ style of Florenw
An important work by Donatello and lichelono, lever-l compositions by

