Adjoining Btreeta. GENOA. 16. Route. 73

new Magauini Gmrali. 4— The Via San Lorenzo ascends from the
Via Vittorio Emanuele to the cathedral, see p. 74.

A Row IN run Hanson: (2fr. per hour for 1-4 pers.; bargain before-
hand) is very attractive when the sky is clear and the sea calm. We ﬁrst
proceed to the and of the Hole Vac-chic, On which stands a small lee
or lighthouse (P1. A, b; no admission). Thence we cross to the Bacim'
dr’ Carmws‘o (Pl. 0, D, '7, 8), large dry docks constructed in 1893-95.
After seeing these, we row past the end of the Halo Giana (lighthouse-
PI. 0. 8, 9) to the M010 [Jam 41‘ Galtiera, which commands a. ﬁne view 0
the city and mountains. Hence we return on foot. passing the Quarantine
Station, and traverse the Mole Nuovo to the large lighthouse (p. 8?), which
may now he visited. Then by electric tramway (No. 11; p. 68) to the
Darseua (p. 72).

The following route avoids the noisy and crowded streets near
the harbour. From the SE. end of the Darsena (Pl. 0, 3), whence
the Via delle Fontane leads to the left to the Piazza dell’ Annunziata
(p. 79), we pass through the Gothic Porta dc! Vacca, erected on the
site of the N.W. town-gate of 1169 and adorned with mediawal
sculptures and towers, to the Via del Campo (Pl. D, 4) and the
Piazza Fosss’renno (Pl. D, 4). From this piazza the Via Lomellini,
with the Palazzo Centurione (No. 1), by Alessi(?), and the house
in which Mazzini was born (No. 33), leads to the left to the Piazza
dell‘ Annunziata (p. 79).

In‘the small Piazza San Siro, a few paces to the E. from the
Piazza Fossatello, is the old cathedral of San Smo (Pl. D, E, 4),
rebuilt about 1576, with a facade of 1830, containing frescoes by
Gioc. Batt. Carlene.

Then through the Via di San Luca to the PIAZZA Barscnr, with
the Exchange (Loggia de' Banchi, Borsa; Pl. D, 5), adorned with
I marble ﬁgure of Cavour by Vino. Vela (business-hours, 11-3). —-
To the left of the Exchange, the narrow Vra Cranmer (Pl. D, E, 5),
with numerous goldsmiths' shops (a door on the right is adorned
with an Adoration of the Magi in relief, 15th cent.), and then the
Piazza Sosiglia (Pl. E, 5) and the Via Luccoli, lead to the Piazza
delle Foutane Marose (p. 76).

To the N. of the Piazza Soziglia is the church of Santa Maria delle
Vine (Pl. E, 5), with three Gothic ﬁgures above the side-portal on the
ﬁght. and a tower of the 13th century. The ﬁne interior was restored in
the lateBenaissance style in 1586; in the chapel to the left of the choir is a
wooden cruciﬁx with painted stniues of the Virgin and St. John, by
ya’aqltm. The church is adjoiucd by a ruined cloister of the iith century.
— 0n the 9. side of the Piazza Ganglia. (Piazza Campetto, No. 8) is the
handsome Palauo Imperiau, by G. B. Caetello (1560).

From the Exchange the Via San Pietro della Porta, passing the
former church of San Pietro de’ Banchi (1583), with its high ﬂight
of steps, leads to the S. to the Via. San Lorenzo (see p. 74).

The steep streets to the S. of the Via Vitt. Emanuele (p. 72) and the

kiln Lorenzo, in the ”oldest and most unaavoury part of Genoa, contain
uveral churches of considerable artistic interest. The Vic San Giorgio,
I side-street of the Via Vitt. Emanuele, and the continuation of the above-
mentioned Via San Pietro della Ports, both lead to the PIAZZA San Gronuro
(PL D, 8), on the 8.13. side of which stands the church of San Giorgio, a
i“risque structure with a dome, containing a Pieth by the Spanish master,

