to Trieste. GORiZlA. 43. Route. 327

A little to the N., Via Gemons No. 17, stands the house of
Giovanni do. Udinc (1487-1564), a pupil of Raphael and one of
his assistants in painting the frescoes of the Vatican; it possesses a
ﬁnely adorned facade and a memorial tablet. — Opposite the Islituto
Tecnico is a Statue of Garibaldi by Michieli, erected in 1886 (Pl. B, 4).

A branch-railway (1011;, in ca. 1/2 hr.) runs from Udine to —

Oividale del Priuli (Alba-go at Fn'uli), a. small town on the Northern,
with 9041. inhab., the ancient Forum Jam, for many centuries the seat
of Lombard dukes, beginning with Gisult', nephew of Alboin. but Venetian
since 1419. It was the birthplace of the actress Adelaide Maori (b. 1821).
and of Paul Warneﬂ‘td (Paula: Diacomu), who lived in the neighbouring
monastery of lontecasino and wrote a history 0! his people (Historia
Longobardorum) in the time of Charlemagne. — The CATHEDRAL, a build-
ing of the 15th cent. with a facade by Pietro Lombardo (ca. 1502), contains,
immediately to the right, the remains (frequently restored) of the 8th cent.
B Mary of Gallium, adorned with rude reliefs, transferred hither in
14%. By the high-altar is a ‘Pala‘, or altar-frontal, ot' gilded silver (1186).
in the Piazza del Duomo is the Museum (intelligent custodian) with numer-
ous Roman and Lombard antiquities, including the stone-cofﬁn of Duke
Gisulf, weapons, ornaments, etc. It also contains the treasures formerly
belon ng to the cathedral-chapter, including a Gospel of the Lombard
perio r, a Plenary of the 10th century, formerly belongin to Queen Ger-
trude of Hungary; the prayer-book of St. Elisabeth of uringia, with
ivory boards and miniatures (13th cent.); the ivory ‘Pax‘ of Duke Ursus of
Ceneda (8th century); and an ivory casket with medieval reliefs after the
antique. — Adiacent is a Convnur or Unsuuxn Nuns (formerly Benedictine)
with the ‘Ohapsl a St. Pellrudtc (8th cent.), containing stucco ornaments
and ﬁgures (68. nastasia, Agape, Irene, Peltrudis, Chrysogonus, and
Zoilns). in which the inﬂuence of antique art may still be traced, while
the architecture of the choir exhibits the decay of the Lombard period.
The nuns possess a large silver cross of the same epoch. — The handsome
Pants dd Diaoolo (15th cent.) leads across the romantic ravine of the
Naﬁsone to the churches of San Martino, which contains the altar of Duke
Pemmo, adorned with barbaric reliefs of the 8th cent... and Santa Marta
dc‘ Battuti, with the masterpiece of Pellegrino da San Daniele (Madonna
with saints).

A BTEAI mear (17 IL, in 13 . hr.-, (area 2 fr. 10, 1 tr. 35 c.) unites
Udl’ne with the small town of San aniele del Friuu (825 t‘t.; 11m), which
is prettily situated in a smiling hill'district. In the Cathedral is an altar-
piece of the Trinity, by Pordenom (1534). The small Gothic church of Sant‘
Antonio contains an extensive cycle of frescoes b Palms-{no do San Daniele
(1497-1522). A ﬁne view is obtained from the azza del Castello.

From Udinc to Brad: (and Vienna), by the Pontebba Railway, see R. 6;
to San Giorgio dt Nogaro, see p. 828.

The train crosses the Tone and the Natisonc. — 931/2 M. Sam
Giovanni Manzano, the Italian frontier-station, where luggage
coming from Austria is examined (railway restaurant). The small
Judrio forms the frontier. —97‘/2 M. Cor-mom, the seat of the Austrian
custom—house (p. 322), beyond which the homo is crossed.

106 M. Gorilia, Germ. Gan (Sﬁdbahn-Hdtcl; Post; Suda’s Grand
Hotel, all very fair), the seat of a bishop, with 21,900 inhab., is
charmingly situated on the Isonzo, in a hilly district. The Cathedral
(14th cent.) is worthy of notice; its treasury contains some valuable
Romanesque articles from Aquileia. On account of its mild cli-
mate Gorizia is visited by invalids, who take it as an intermediate

