454 Route 58. FLORENCE. a. Piazza del Duomo:

ciolini ('2), secretary of state, by Donatello, admirably individualised. But
of the architect De Fabris (d. 1888; p. 452). On the ﬁrst pillar, 8t. Zeno-
bius, a picture of the school of Orcagna.

The AsosN-r or run Don (p. 452) is very interesting, both for the
sake of obtaining an idea of its construction, and for the ‘View (more
extensive than from the Campanile, see below). Entrance by a small door
in the left aisle (open 7—12 in summer, 9-12 in winter; Idm. BOc.)-, easy
ascent of 463 steps to the upper gallery, whence the adventurous visitor
may clamber up a ladder o 7 steps more to the cross on the summit.

The I“(hnnpnnile (P1. F, 4), or bell-tower, begun by Giotto in
1334-36, carried on after his death by Andrea Pisano and Franc.
Tabenti, and completed in 1387, a square structure 292 ft. in height,
is regarded as one of the ﬁnest existing works of the kind. It consists
of four stories, richly decorated with coloured marble. The win-
dows, which increase in size with the different stories, are enriched
with beautiful tracery in the Italian Gothic style. On the W. side are
four statues, the ﬁrst three of which are by Donatello, viz. John the
Baptist (1416; little inferior to the St. George, 1). 473), *David ('2),
the celebrated ‘Zuccone’ or bald-head, and *Jeremiah. The fourth
(Obadiah) is by his assistant Rosso (1420). On the E. side are
Habakkuk and Abraham’s Oﬁering, by Donatello (the latter, 1421.
partly by Bone), and two patriarchs (Moses and Joshua?) by Ram
(1421, the former partly by Donatello). On the N. and S. are sihyis
and prophets. Below these ﬁgures, on the sides of the tower, are
‘Bas—reliefs; those on the W., S., and E. sides by Andrea Piano
(from alleged designs by Giotto) and those on the N. by Luca dolls
Robbin (1437): the Seven Cardinal Virtues, the Seven Works of
Mercy, the Seven Beatitudes, and the Seven Sacraments. In the
lower series is represented the development of mankind from the
Creation to the climax of Greek science (among the best are the
Creation of Eve, Adam and Eve at work, Dwellers in tents, Astro-
nomer, Rider, Weaving, Navigation, Agriculture), while the
liberal arts are represented by ﬁgures of Phidiss, Apelles, Donatns.
Orpheus, Plato, Aristotle, Ptolemy, Euclid, and a musician.

‘The characteristics of Power and Beauty occur more or less in different
buildings, some in one and some in another. But all together, and all

in their highest possible relative degrees, they exist, so far as I know, I

only in one building in the world, the Campanile of Giotto‘. — Buskin‘s
‘Seven Lamps of Archuecture‘.

The campanlle is ascended by a good staircase of All steps (fee
I[2‘1 fr.). Beautiml Vrsw from the top, embracing the city, the
valley in which it lies, the neighbouring heights, studded with villas and
richly cultivated, and the mountains to the N., 3., and E. At the summit
are seen the piers on which, according to Giotto‘s plan, it was proposed to
raise a spire of 100 ft.

0n the B. side of the cathedral is the Canonry (Palauo dsi
Canonici; Pl. F, 4), erected in 1827 by Gaetano Baccani; at the portal
are statues ofﬁrnolfo di Gambia and Filippo Brunelleschi, both by
Luigi Pampalonl (1830). — Into the wall of one of the following
houses (No. 29) is built the 80380 di Dante, a stone on which the
great poet is said to have been wont to sit on summer evenings. -

