e. Academy. FLORENCE. as. acute. 493

appears here as the heir ofMaeaccio, who is by no means wellrepre-
sentedin this gallery (Room IV, No. 70). Filippo Lippi’s Coronation of
the Virgin (Room 111, No. 62), with a portrait of himsell, belongs to
his later period. In this work the master obviously aims at sensuous
beauty in his female forms; he departs from the strictly ecclesias—
tical style and borrows various eﬂects from the province of sculp-
ture. Venocchio’s Baptism of Christ (Room IV, No. 71), which,
according to Vasari, was ﬁnished by his pupil Leonardo da Vinci,
betrays a certain crudity in the ﬁgure of the Baptist, while the
landscape and the two angels distantly recall Leonardo’s technical
skill and sense of form. Sandro Botticelli'e Spring (Room IV,
No. 80), which transports us to the realm of antique myth, is the
most popular picture in the gallery, owing to its fairy—like charm.
Domenico Ghirlandajo was thoroughly conversant with traditional
forms, and with their aid he has been enabled to produce majestic
and spirited ﬁgures, and to unite in them the result of the labour
of two generations. His Madonna and angels (Room III, No. 66) is
better preserved than the Nativity of Christ (Room VII, N6. 195).
A comparison of Ghirlandajo’s simplicity of style, the outcome of
-a mature imagination, with the elaborate and exaggerated manner
of many old masters, is most instructive. Lorenzo di Credi’s Nativity
(Room V, No. 92) is attractive on account of its beauty of expression
and the careful execution of the landscape. Among Fra Bartolomeo’s
pictures, Mary appearing to St. Bernard (Room V, No. 97) is parti—
cularly worthy of notice, as it aﬂords an insight into the master’s
method of painting. Mariotto Albertinelli, who is closely allied to
Fra Bartolomeo, is well represented by a Trinity (Room III, No. 63);
his Annunciation (Room VII, No. 169) is no longer in its original
condition.

This gallery is important also to the student of Umbrian art in
the 15th century. It possesses one of the chief works of Gentile da
Fabrirmo, an Umbrian master, closely allied to Fra Angelica in his
modes ofthought (Adoration of the Magi ; Room XVI, No. 165). This
work affords distinct evidence of the unity of sentiment which
existed between the Schools of the North and South in the 15th cent.,
notwithstanding their external independence. Pemgino’s pictures
are greatly above the average merit of his works: in his Pieta
(Room 111, No. 56) an admirable individuality of character is ex-
hibited; his skill as a colourist is shown in his Mount 0! Olives
(b3); and his Assumption (57), admirable both in composition
and execution, reveals him at the zenith of his power.

From the Vas'rrnurm (Room I), in which is the ticket-ofﬁce, we
proceed straight on to Roors II, the ﬁrst portion of which is hung
with ﬁne Flanders tapestry (scenes from the Creation), in the style
of Barmd van Orley (d. 1541).

Beneath the cupola at the other end of the room stands the
celebrated ’David (‘11 Gigante’) by Michael Angelo, shaped by the

