Ram comm. ' BOLOGNA. 51.12am. 373

some wrought-iron gratings at the windows. -—- Adjacent, in the
Piazza Minghetti (P1. E, 5), is a bronze statue of the statesman
Marco Minghctti (1818-86), by Monteverde (1896).

On the left in the Vu Sum Srnrmo is situated -—

lsnto Stefano (Pl. F, 5), consisting of eight different ediﬁces,
the oldest of which, the former cathedral of Santi Pietro e Paolo,
Was probably founded as early as the 4th century. Three of the
churches have their entrances on the street. .

The present law Ono-on (1687) has a pul it of the 12th cent. on its
old facade. — We proceed thence to the lot into the second churchl
'danto aspolcro, a successfully restored circular building with coloured
brick ornamentation, erected before the year 1M, and perhaps originally
a baptistery. A brick column was placed adjacent to each of the seven
antique columns, and in the 12th cent. the tomb of St. Pstronius (d. sea)
was added in imitation of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem. -— The passage
to the left leads to the WM church. This is the Romanesque basilica of
Sam Pietro s Paolo, rebuilt in 1019 and frequently altered, while the
exterior was rebuilt in 1880-85. The roof is supported by columns and
pillars alternately. In the interior, adjoining the chair on the leit, is a
meophsgus dating from the 9th cent., and adorned with a cross between
two peacocks; it contains the bones of the martyr St. Vitalis (d. 382?.
0n the right, the sarcophagus of the martyr Agricola (9th cent.), who s
represented with wings, between a stﬁ and a lion. —— Behind Ssnto
Sepolcro is a Colonnade, the Atrio til late, dating in its resent form
from the 11th eentq in the centre is a font with an inscript on mention-
mg the Lombard king Liutprand ((1. 7“). Chapel on the left, Cruciﬁxion
and saints, altar-piece by Gtac. Wanda. — Immediately in front is the
[1/111 church, China delta whoa, resting on piers, in the centre oi’ which
13 I series oi’ columns with Romanesque capitals. In the 3rd chapel to
the right is a alnted terracotta group (idth cent.), of the Adoration of the
Magic -- Turn lg to the right in front of the entrance to the ﬁlth church
we enter the sixth buildln . the Cappslla delta Conclusions, to the right from
which is the seventh build ng, the Romanesque Confessto or Crypt (enclosed
by a screen), under the choir of the ﬁrst church, dstin from the 11th cen-
tury. — The door straight in front admits to the loisten (ilth cent.)
if the suppressed Celestine monastery.

Opposite, on the right, are (No. 11) the Pal. Bologntm‘ (PI. 38)
“1626, and the Gothic Pal. Bovi-Siivestri(No. 19), now the Palaszo
l‘acconi.

A short side-street to the right, opposite the Via Ferini, leads
to San Giovanni in Monte (Pl. F, 5, 6), said to have been founded
n 433, rebuilt in the Gothic style in 1221 and 1440—42, and
'estored in 1824 and 1844. It consists of e low nave with aisles
ind a short transept. The tower and dome are of the 16th century.
\bove the entrance is an eagle in terracotta, by Niccolo dell’ Area.

lurenron (very dork). The W. window (St. John and the seven golden
'andlesticks) is by Costa. 3rd Chapel on the right, St. Joseph and the
niant Christ, on the right, St. Jerome on the left, both by Gun-inc.
111. Chapel, 'Madonna enthroned with four saints and angelic musicians.
‘3 Important work by Lorenzo Crista (1497; best light early in the morning).
n the Cuorn, 'Coronation of the Vir in, with saints, in an attractive
andseape, by L. Costa (c. 1505 best 1 ght early in the morning or after
|0011); 'Stalls by Paolo Sacco, I523, above them, the busts of the twelve
‘postles in terracotta, by Alfonso Lombardi. The N. trensept contained
ephael‘s St. Cecilia down to 1796 (p. 378; the ﬁne frame by Formim‘ne,
"lib t poor copy of the painting, is the original). 6th Chapel on the

