of Florence. VALLOMBBOSA. 59. Route. 531

the station are the Hotel Vallombroou (burned down in Aug., 1902)
and the Hotel Oroce di Savoja; 1/2 M. farther on is the Grand Hotel
Costello di Acquabella (pens. 12-15 fr.).

The carriage-road leads through a dense grove of hrs to (11/4 M.)
Vauombroaa. The road which diverges to the right at the station
and passes the Scoglio dd Saltino, a projecting rock with a line view
of the Arno valley, is only a little longer.

The convent of Vallomhrosa (3140 ft.), situated in e shaded and
sequestered spot on the N.W. slope of the Pratomagno chain, was
founded in 1015 and suppressed in 1868. The present buildings,
dating from 1637, have been occupied since 1870 by the Beale
Istituto Forestale, the only advanced school of forestry in Italy.
There are now only three monks here, who celebrate service in the
church, and attend to the meteorological observatory. Hotel: Albergo
delta Foresta (the former Foresteris), R. from 31/3, B. 1, luncheon
21/2, D. 4, pension (L. and wine extra) 7-12, in July and August
$12, omn. from the cable-railway 1/, fr.

The monaetery of Vallombrosa was founded by San Giovanni Guaiberlo
(Nb-1073), the scion of a wealthy and powerful family of Florence, who after
a career of youthful proﬂigaey resolved to devote the reminder of his life
to the most eustere acts of penance. His brother Hugo having fallen by
the knife of In aseusin, Gualberto wse bound by the customs of the age
to follow the bloody law of retaliation. Descending one Good Friday
from the church of Ban Iiniato near Florence. accompanied by armed fol-
lowers, he suddenly encountered the assassin at a narrow pnrt of the
road. The letter fell at his feet and implored mercy. The knight
forgave his enemy, and led him to San Mininto, where he himself assumed
the cowl. Finding the discipline there ton lax, however, he betook himself
to this lonely spot and founded Vallombrosa.

Il Paradist‘no (3336 ft.), a small hermit-go situated on a rock
1/‘ hr. to the left above the monastery, is now an annexe to the Alb.
dolls Forests (see above; rooms not very comfortable). The plat-
form in front commands an admirable ‘Survey of the monastic
buildings, end of the broad valley of the Arno as far as Florence, half
of the cathedral-dome of which is visible behind a hill. The horizon
is bounded by the Alpi Apuane (p. 106). — Another pleasant walk
may be taken on the road leading from the hotel towsrds the NJ].
along the mountain—slopes to (2% M.) Logo, which is to be con-
tinued to the Conmma Pass (1). 632).

The ascent of the Becchieta (£750 ft.) the'N. summit of the h-ato-
mono Chain, from Vallomhross occupies ilk-2 hrs. (guide not indispensable
for experts). The path diverges to the right, a little before we reach the
Paradisino (see above) and ascends to the S.E. mostly through dense pine
forest and afterwards over pastures, passing the eo-called Rmiton'o delta
Macinqla, to the crest of the ridge. which it reaches at a narrow depres-
sion. Hence we ascend to the left to (25 min.) the Tabmacoto di Don
Pica, In old chapel commanding a splendid ‘View. To the E. lies the
green Cssentino Valley, bounded on the N.E. by the lofty Monte Falter-one,
where the Arno rises; to the W. the fertile and richly-cultivated valley
of the Arno stretches as far as the dome of the cathedral of Florence,
beyond which the blue Mediterranean is sometimes visible in the extreme
distance. — We may return to Vallombrosa from the chapel by keeping
to the N.W. vid the Grace Rana; or we may descend to the W. tom
the Rommrio to Ssitino direct vii the bare ridge of the Becca d6 Lupe.

3‘.

