258 Route 42. BASSANO.

30 M. Butane (420 ft. ; Alb. Sant’ Antonio, Manda, both well
spoken of ; Stella d'Oro), a charmingly situated town of 15,097 inhsb.
The houses of the long market-place show traces of early facade—
painting. .

Near the market is the Crvro Museum (10-3, in autumn 10-4;
.at other times, fee), containing a number of works by the Da Petite
family, surnamed Bassano from their birthplace.

Room I: ﬁ-aaaeoao Banana (father of Jaeopo), Madonna with 88. Peter
and Paul (1509); Jacopo Banana (1510-92; the most eminent of this grou
of artists, who all aint in his manner), Nativity of Christ, and St. Vs-
entine beptising a umb girl; Leandra Banana (d. 1623-. son of Jeeopo).
Portrait of the Podestit Capella. — Roost III: The original models of
Canaan‘s Venus and Hebe, and cuts of Canon‘s works. An 'oining
room contains a collection of memorials of that master and draw use by
eminent artists.

The CATHEDRAL, on the N. side of the town, beyond the Piazza
del Terraglio, contains paintings by Jacopa Banana: right, As-
sumption of the Virgin, with portraits of_ Charles V., the Dose of
Venice, the Pope, etc.; left of the high-altar, Adoration of the
Child; right, Martyrdom of Stephen. — The old palace of Ezzelino
(p.223) is now partly occupied by the arciprete (dean). The promen-
ades encircling the town command beautiful views of the Alps and
their foot-hills and of the brawling Bronte, spanned by apictur-
esque timber bridge.

The Villa Reasonica, 11/2 M. from the town, contains a has-
relief by Canoua (Death of Socrates) and other works of art. In
the suburb Borgo Leone is the Villa Parolim', with abeantiful park.

Bonaparte defeated the Austrians under Wurmser st Bassano
on 8th Sept, 1796, four days after the battle of Rovereto, baring
marched hither from Trent in two days. The covered timber bridge
over the Brenta occupies the place of one blown up by the French
on that occasion. ——In 1809 Napoleon erected the district of Bassano
into a duchy and conferred it upon Marat, his secretary of state.

Possngno (Alb. Socal), Canova‘: birthplace, beautifully situated at the
[base of Monte Grappu, 10 M. to the N.E. of Bessano, is reached by a good
road (diligence daily in about 2% hrs.), passing Romano, the birth cl
of Ezzelino, and Crespana. The domed church, in the style 0 the
Pantheon, built at Canon's expense, contains his tomb, an altar- ieet

painted by him, and a tine bronze relief of the Entombment. The P o
as his house is called, contains models and casts of his works.

From Bassano to Canada viii Asolo and Maser, see pp. 257, 32‘; it
Trent through the Val Swami, see Baedeksr‘c Eastern Alps.

