310 Route 42. VENICE. f. Western Quarters:

colts Canoviaua, with sketches and relics by Coma, Ind casts of his
works. —— Roous XVIII-XXL, to the right, contain drawings, water-colours,
engravings, and wood-cuts. In the last room is a large bird‘s-eye view
of Venice, printed from n wooden block carved by Zuass Andrea (1500),
problshly iafiler n drswing by Jacopo dot Bar-bard; also the origins] wooden
bloc itse .

The Case Gorrer (p. 296), formerly the residence of Teodoro
Con-er (d. 1830), founder of the municipal art-collections, now
contains the remainder of the Museo Civico (sdm., p. 265; entrance
by door No. 17293).

Gnonnn FLoon. Models of modern monuments, etc. — Fmsr Floor.
The ﬁrst rooms contain porcelain, gloss, engravings, etc., bequeathed by
different benefactors. B. 7. Musicnl instruments. R. 9. National mem—
orials. The lust room (closed) contains s. copy of Michael Angela‘s Leda. —
Snconn FLoon. Natural History Collections.

To the S.W. of the Museo Civico is the church of Ben Giacomo
dell’ Orio (Pl. E, 4), one of the quaintest churches in Venice,
rebuilt in the 13th and 16th cent., with s timber-roof.

0n the entrance-wall, to the left, Buonconu'glio, 88. Sebastian, Roch,
and Lawrence (1511). The right aisle contains s. vestibule adorned with
I column of oerdc antico, and a picture by ”one. Banana, John the Bap-
tist preaching, under a richly decorated wooden uulting of the Rennie}
sauce period. In the left eisle, opposite the pulpit: Lorenzo Lotto, Nations
and saints, a late work (15“; inJured and badly lighted).

San Simeone Piccolo, Gli Scalsi, and the station, see p. 297.

The direct route from the ltialto to the Frari leads past San
Giovanni Elemoainan'o (p. 308) through the Roan Dr SAN Grovum
(Pl. F, 4), and crosses the Campo Sant’ Aponal. Over the door or
the church of that name (Venetian for S. Apollinarc) is a marble
group of General Vitt. Cappello (d. 1467) kneeling before the Vir-
gin, by Ant. ltizzi (i480). Near this church is the Pal. Albriszi
(ﬁne stucco-embellishments in the interior, by A1. Vittoria) and
beyond it the Csuro SAN PoLo (Pl. E, F, 4; on the neighbouring
Rio di S. P010 is the Pal. Comer-Mocmigo, with s good facade by
Sanmicholi). -— Passing between the church of San Polo and its
csmpanile (14th cent.), we cross the Rio S. Polo and proceed in
a straight direction to the Rioterri‘: dei Nomboli. Here we turn to
the left, and, where it bends, follow the narrow side-street to the
right, ﬁnally crossing a canal and reaching the (intro SAN Toni
(Pi. E, 5), with the church of that name, a little to the N. of the
steamboat-station mentioned at p. 261. In this square lies the old
Scuou Der (humans: (‘Cobblers’ Guild’), founded in the 16th
cent. and the only building of the kind in Venice that has kept
its exterior unaltered. Over the portal is a relief of St. Mark healing
the cobbler Animus by Pietro Lombardo (i479), remukable for
its well-preserved colouring. — A few paces to the N.W. lies the
former church of the Franciscans, or the —

“Pres-i (Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Fran’, Pl. E 5; comp.p. 265),
s cruciform Gothic church, one of the largest and most beautiful at
Venice, erected in 1330-1417 on the site of a building of 19.50. Its

