Dusmo to the N. Quarters. MILAN. 19. Route. 119

Sarcophagus of Archbishop Aribert (1018-46), above which is a gilded
cruciﬁx of the 11th century. Monument of Ottone Visconti (d. 1295) and
Giovanni Visconti (d. 1364), both archbishops of Milan. Gothic monument
of Marco Carelli (d. 1394), by Niccolo d‘Areua of Florence (?). Tomb of
Canon Vimercati, by Bambqla. — Riser Truman (W. wall): Monument
of the brothers Giovanni Giacomo and Gabriele de‘ Medici, both of Milan,
erected by their brother Pope Pius IV. (1564), the three bronze statues
by Leona Leont. [Tickets for the roof (25 c., see below) are obtained near
this monument; the staircase leading to the dome is in the corner of the
side-wall.) The altar of the Offering of Mary (E. wall of 8. transept) is
adorned with line reliefs by Bambaja, with a relic! of the nativity of the
Virgin by Tamardini at the foot. Adjacent is the Statue of Bt. Bartholo-
mew by Marco Agrats (1562), anatomically remarkable, as the saint is
represented ﬂayed, with his skin on his shoulder, and bearing the modest
inscription ‘non me Praxiteles sed Marcus ﬂnxit Agrates‘.

Axeuta‘ronr. The door of the B. Sacristy here is remarkable for its
richly sculptured Gothic decorations, by Hans son Fer-ouch (1393). In the
sacristy is the ’Trsasury (adm. 1 fr.), which contains silver statues and can-
delabra of the 17th cent.; the enamelled Evangelinm of Abp. Aribert;
diptychs of the 6th cent; book-covers adorned with Italian and Byzantine
carving of the early middle ages ; ivory vessel belonging to Bishop God-
frey; a golden Pox by Caradosso; and lastly a statue of Christ by Cristo-
fora Balm-2'.

In the ambulatory, a little farther on is a highly revered Madonna,
erroneOusly ascribed to but“ beyond whic is a sitting ﬁgure of Martin V.
by Jacopino da Trade“ (1 1). Then the black marble Monument of
Cardinal Marina Caracciolo (d. 1538), by Bambaja. The fourth of the
handsome new Gothic confessionals is for the German, French, and English
languages. The stained glass in the three vast choir-windows, comprising
360 representations of Scriptural subjects, were executed by Gioo. Bertim’
(1844); most of them are copies from old pictures. Before the N. SACRIBTY
is reached the statue of Pius IV. is seen above, in a sitting posture, by
Angelo Whom). The door of this sacristy is also adorned with ﬁne sculp-
tures by Jae. da WM (d. 1 98.

In front of the choir. below the dome, is the subterranean 'Cappena
San Carlo Borromeo (p. 169), with the tomb of the saint; entrance 0 posite
the doors to the sacristy, to the N. and S. of the choir (0 on till 1 a.m.
at other times 1fr.; for showing the relics of the saint 5 r.).

In the centre of the N. Tmsar’r is a valuable bronze °Candelabrum,
in the form of a tree with seven branches, executed in the 13th cent., and
decorated with ﬁgures on the lower portions (prob. French work of the
13th cent.).

Lina-r Areal. Altar-piece, painted in 1000 by Fed. Barocdo, represent-
ing Sant’ Ambrogio releasing Emp. Theodosius from ecclesiastical penalties.
The third cha el contains the old wooden Cruciﬁx which Ban Carlo Borro—
Ineo bore in 576, when engaged, barefooted, in his missions of mercy
during the plague. Adjacent, the monument of three archbishops of the
Arclmboldi family (ca. 1550), and by the wall, the statues of eight Apostles
(13th cent.). Not far from the N. side~door is the Font, consisting of an
antique bath of porphyry', canopy by Pellegﬁno ﬂbaldt.

The traveller should not omit to ascend to the ‘Boor and
Tower: of the Cathedral. The staircase ascends from the corner of
the right transept (ticket 25 c. ; open till an hour before sunset, in
summer from 5.30 or 6 a.m.), where an excellent panorama of the
Alps by Pirola may be bought (75 c.). Single visitors are not now
admitted, except when other visitors are already at the top. The
Visitor should mount at once to the highest gallery of the tower (by
194 steps inside and 300 outside the edifice). A watchman, generally
stationed at the top, possesses a good telescope.

