238 Ram 38. MANTUA. From Verona

The entire quarter between the Piazza Sordelio and the Logo
Interiors is occupied by the spacious Reggie, or (Jam Beale
(Pi. D, 2), originally a palace of the Bonacolsi (1302), afterwards
frequently added to by the Gonzagas, but new in great part un-
occupied. The original Gothic facade, with its battlcments, is still
in good preservation. The original splendour of the palace is still
represented in the apartments of Isabella d’Este (p. 236) as well
as in those altered for Federico II. in 1525-31 by Giulio Romano.
The elegant decorations in the classicist style, now to be seen in
several of the rooms destroyed by the Austrians in 1630, date from
the reigns of Maria Theresa and Joseph II. and from the time of
the Viceroy Eugene Beauharnais (p. 111).

A visit to the palace requires not less than 1 hr. The custodian is
to be found under the second large arched gateway to the left (fee 1 in).

Ground Floor. The so-called chunara, embellished with line gro-
tesques and frescoes (hunting-scenes with Diana, etc.), by Giulio Rome, is
,now the solitary relic of the A partameuto della Gretta, prepared for
Isabella d‘Este and once ﬁlled wrth art-treasures.

The Upper Floor is reached by means of a handsome staircase dating
from 1640. The Sana our Doom is hung with portraits of all the Gon-
sagas. — The Arrausxaxro Dnr.’ IIPRBATBIOI was altered under Kari:
Therese by Gtus. hemora'm‘ (p. 147). In the last room is the bed used by
Eugene Beanharnais (1812). — The adjoining Sana our From is embellished
with allegorical ﬁgures of the rivers near Hantua, by Giorgio AM
(1776). In front of it is the new Giardino Pensilc, or hanging garden. —
The San DILLO Zonnoo has ceiling-paintings of the signs of the sodiec.
by Lor.~costa the Ymgm the mural decorations date from 1&8. —- The
Armenian-re Dru‘ Inrrnsronn, altered for Joseph 11. in 1783 by Paolo
Porto, has been tastefully decorated by the Muntuan artists, And. How
and a. B. Marconi. On some of the walls are painted copies (by Fat.
Camps) of the tapestry brought hither by Maria Therese from the church
of Santa Barbara. The tapestry itself (copies of Raphael‘s tapestry in
the Vatican) is now in Vienna. Napoleon I. once slept in the ﬁrst room. —
The Prc'nmn German! (Galleria dot Quadn') contains unimportant paintings
and two portrait-busts by Berm‘m’. —- The Arrsnrsxaa'ro Ducau’. builtby Ant.
Want under Vincenzo I. (1587-1612), is at present empty. —- The ‘Arrsnrs-
unsure on Paasnrso, consisting of the four little Camsﬂnt of Isabella
d‘Este, is interesting for its early-Renaissance decorations, still in tolerable
repair. We observe here particularly the intarsia, the beautiful reliefs
on the marble door, and the delicate ceiling-painting. The motto of the
princess, ‘nec spe nec metu‘, appears several times. The corner-room
commands a charming view of the now neglected garden and of the Lego
Inferiore. In the last room are some remains of the old frieze from the
Sela dello Zodiaco (see above). - The sumptuous Sana neon! Spaces!
(room of mirrors) is embellished with frescoes by pupils of Giulio Romano. —
We now pass through the Aryans-sumo m Tnoas, some of the richly
decorated rooms of which are in sad disrepair: Sale. di Manto, formerly
a. banquet-room; Sale del Giuramento, with a (restored) fresco of Luigi
Gonzaga (p. 236) receiving the allegiance of the people; Sale dei Cimieri.
with charming stucco ornamentation by Fr. Prinmtica‘o and !a view of
the Castello di Corte, Ponte San Giorgio, Lego Inferiore, and Lago di
Mezzo; Sela del Trionfo diiGiulio Cesare, so called from the series of
nine paintings by Andrea Mantegna, now at Ben: ton Court; two rooms
with elegant grotesques (adjoiued by a loggia and the old hanging garden);
Stanza del Giove, with a ceiling-painting by Giulio Romano; Ssla di Tro a,
withﬂfrescoes by Giulio Romano (poorly restored in 1846); and ‘Ssla ei
Hal-mi, tastefully decorated in the style of the ancient thermos. — The
Gannon DELLA Mosraa, at one time occupied by the natural history
museum, retains traces of its ,old ceiling, painted by Giulio Bowman It

