Bma. , MILAN. 19. Route. 125

Boon VI Venetian School of the 16th century. Titidn, ‘Portrait
of Count Porcia (of the master’s middle period, ca. 1637; injured);
St. Jerome, a characteristic example of his later style (about 1660).
Palma Vccchz'o, Four saints.

Room VlI: Venetian School of the 16th century. Lorenzo Lotto,
‘Portrait of a lady; ‘Portraits of two men.

‘The dne—chiselled features (of the lady), extremely pure in drawing,
charm by their mild expression. A delicate but healthy com lotion is
displaye in warm sweet tones of extraordinary transparence; nn masterly
transitions lead the eye from opal lights into rich and coloured shadows.
A half length in the same collection represents a man of lean and bony
make with a swallow-tailed beard, a grey eye, close set features, and a
grave aspect. . . . A third half length, companion to these, oﬂ‘ers another
Variety of type and execution. A man stands at a table in a pelisse with
I {ox skin collar; he is bare-headed and bearded. His right hand rests
on the table and grips a handkerchief. The ruddy skin of the face is
broken with touches now warm now cold by which the play of light and
reﬂections is rendered with deceptive truth‘. —— 0. xi- (7.

ROOM VIII: Venetian Schools of the 15—16th centuries. Carlo
Crivelli, ‘Madonna enthroned; *Madonna enthroned, with four saints
(i482); Cruciﬁxion, with the Madonna and St. John; Coronation
of the Virgin, with a Pieta above it (1493). — Andrea Mantegna,
Large altar-piece, at the top the Madonna and St. John weeping
over the dead body of Christ, below St. Luke and other saints,
painted in 1454, and a proof of the early maturity of the artist, then
23 years old; I"Madonna in a nimbus of angels’ heads; 'Pieta.

‘It is a icture 'in which Mantegna‘s grandest style is impressed,
foreshortenedp with disagreeable boldness, but with sur rising truth,
iludied from nature, and imitating light shade, and re ectiou with a
carefulness and perseverance only equalled by Leonardo and Diirer; dis-
playing at the same time an excess of tragic realism, and a painful un-
attractiveness in the faces of the Marys.‘ — 0. d: 0.

Giovanni Bellini, Madonna (an early work with Greek inscrip-
tions); 'Pieta, an early and genuinely impassioned work; Madonna
(ailate work, about 1510). -

Room lX' (School of Genoa) has examples of Castiglione, Luca
Cambiaso, etc.

Rooms X andXI: Early Lombard Schools. Vine. Ci'vcrchio, Ador-
ation of the Child. Vine. Foppa, Madonna enthroned with angels;
Six panels with ﬁgures of saints. Borgognone, Madonna with
St. Clara and a Carthusian Monk.

Rooms X11 and XIII: . School of Leonardo da Vinci. Works by
Bern. Lanini, Salaino, and Bern. de’Conti. — Marco d’Oggiono,
Fall of Lucifer.

Room XIV: School of Leonardo da Vinci. Franc. Napoletano
(a little-known pupil of Leon. da Vinci), Madonna. Sodoma (‘30,
Madonna with the Lamb, painted under the inﬂuence of Leon. da
Vinci. Andr. Solario, Madonna with SS.Joseph and Jerome, an early
work (1495; restored); Portraitof aman. Gianpictrino, Madonna with
the Lamb (unﬁnished); Mary Magdalen. Gaud. Ferrari, Martyrdom

