ORTA. 29. Route. 183

Passengers for the LAGO Macaroni: leave the railway here. The road
t0(6)i.)1’auanza runs viii Fondo Toce and Suna (see p. 178; omn., see
p. 177, cart. with one horse 5 with two horses 10 (r. . For the road to
(5 it.) Baveno (viii Feriolo) and Strata, see pp. 179, 1 (omn., see p. 180;
carr. to Baveno A. to Stresa 5 in, with two horses 8 or 10 fr.). — There
are always plenty of vehicles at Gravelloua station. It is neither necessary
nor advisable to take the omnibus-seats at Domodcssola.

The railway runs to the S. through the fertile valley of the Strona.
Beyond (21 M.) Cmsinallo it crosses the river and immediately
afterwards the Nigulia Canal, which drains the Lake of Orta.

23 M. Omegne (996 ft.; Alb. delta Pasta), with a. large paper-
mill, lies at the N. and of the charming Lake of Orto. (950 ft. above
the sea; 71/2 M. long), now known also as the Logo Curio from its
(somewhat doubtful) ancient name. —- The line runs high above the
lake, commanding beautiful views of it. Beyond (27 M.) Pettenasco
we cross the Peacone, and then the imposing Sasaina Viaduct.

9.81/2 M. 0m Novarese, also the station for Miasino.

The railway-station lies about 1 )1. above Orta. On leaving it we
turn to the left, pass below the railway and proceed in a strnight direction.
About halfway to the town we pass the Villa Orupi, in a Moorish style,
beyond which a guide-post points to the right to the Monte d‘Orla and
the g. hr.) Alb. Belvedere.

atoll. ALB. Bnnvnnnxn, on the W. slope of the Monte d‘Orta, with
ﬁne view, B. 3, D. 4 fr, (Engl. Ch. Serv. in summer). — Ann. San
Gxuuo, Ann. 0311, both well spoken of, in the Piazza, by the lake, 1‘]. M.
from the railway-station; Hon-Pans. Gaxrnannr, at the rail. station. —
Boats for hire at the Piazn. _

The little town of Orta (1029 inhab.) consists mainly of a Plazza,
Open on the side next the lake, one long narrow street, and a
number of villas lining the road to the station. It lies opposite
the small hole San Giulio, at the S.W. base of the Monte d’Orts.
(1315 ft.), or Sacra Monte, a beautifully wooded hill, stretching
out into the lake. The ascent of the Sacro Monte may be made
either from a point halfway between the t0wn and the station (see
above) or from the Piazza, through the grounds of the Villa of
Marchese Natta (50 c.). In the 16th cent. ‘20 chapels were erected
here in honour of St. Francis of Assisi, each containing a scene from
his history in painted lifesize ﬁgures of terracotta with a back—
ground ‘al fresco’. The best groups are in the léth, 15th, and
20th chapels; in the last is represented the canonisation of the
Saint (fee for adm. to each chapel, 20-30 c.). Various points on the
hill command charming surveys of the lake, while the panorama from
the Campanile at the top (50 c.) includes the snowy Monte Rosa,
rising above the lower hills to the W.

A boat to the [sold San Giulio and back costs ll/a fr. The ancient church
here was founded, according to the legend, by St. Julius, who came from
Greece in 379 to convert the natives, and has been frequently restored.
It contains reliefs, old frescoes, and a Romanesque pulpit. In the sacnsty
are a Madonna by Gaudenzio Ferrari and some old vestments, while the
Crypt, below the high-altar, contains a shrine of silver and crystal, wrth
the body of St. Julius.

Picturesque Exclusions may be made from Ortn to the (1 hr.) Madonna
ddla Bacciola (1565 ft.), situated on the hill above the station, to the

