ROBERTS BHOTHERS’ PUBLICATIONS.
THE THIEF IN THE NIGHT.

By HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORP,

Author of “ The Amber Gods,” “New England Legends,” Ste. 1 vol-
A 16mo. Price $1.25. ’

 

From the Literary World.

It is a long time since Mrs. S ﬂ'ord has let loose a novel upon the world,
but it is plain that her right ban has not lost its cunning. She manipulates
the thunderbolts of rhetoric with the same easy vehemence that amazed
the readers of “ The Amber Gods ” a dozen years ago. Yet there is more
method in her thought, and in her style. The former is deeper and more
intense, and the latter shows the chastenin inﬂuence of time. . . . In
reading her writings one’s intellect and sens bilities are at variance; the
former rotesting and resisting, and the latter helpless, but happ under
the fasc nations of her marvellous words. Blest is he who can give mself
up to the delights of her entertainment, and feast on its dainties without a
doubt of their wholesomeness, and without fear of possible mental bewil-
derment or moral headache.

“ The Thief in the Night ” is a very peculiar story, not less in its con-
ception than in the manner of its execution. It opens with a murder, — a
mysterious tr y, —the victim of which lies pale on his bloody bed, with
weepin frien about him. His widow, and the man who loves her, and
whom c has loved, stand together looking at the dead man' and then the
author drops the curtain, to be raised again in due season. The conviction
of every reader at the end of this scene is that the husband has been slain
by the wife, for love of him who was dearer to her. . . . This book will
have many readers; its fascinations are undeniable; the author has no
suﬁnrior in our literature in the deft manipulation of words, and this
fe city is attended, somewhat incongruously, it seems, by a power of intense
dramatic expression that gives substantial strength to her stories.

From a Regular Correspondent qt‘the New York Tribune.

BOSTON, Feb. 29. -——The variety of thievesis inﬁnite. Some plunder
custom-houses and some steal hearts, and between these offences are
various gradations. The arch thief of souls is not the only one who comes
to us in the of an an%¢;ld0f light. A very captivating thief, indeed, was
the one who t night rob me alike of. sleep and ennui — “ A Thief in
the Night; ” for that is the quaint title of a book by Mrs. arriet Prescott
Spoﬂ'ord, a new and really wonderful romance, which Roberts Brothers
are about to publish. The reader does not willing] lay it down between
commencement and ﬁnis. . . . There is no break in t e breathless interest;
no trace of weariness or ﬂaggin anywhere; no place where it seems to

on that the wonderful story whic holds on like the eye of the Ancient

ariner could have known a pause. . . . e whole interest is concentratedl
in three strong human souls, brought out with lights and shades as vividl
as Rembrand used in his pictures, --souls which terribly suffered andl
sinned, but with the likeness of the Divine in them still. It is not un-
common, in books at least, to marry the wrong man, thinking him to be
the right one. Catherine made the less common mistake of marrying the
right man, believing him to be the wrong one; and out of this miscon-
ception grows the tragedy of the tale.

Sold everywhere. Mailed postpat'd' by the Publishers,
ROBERTS BROTHERS. BOSTON.

 

