GEORGE, SAND’S NOVELS.

I. MAUPRAT. Translated by VIRGINIA VAUGHAII.
II. ANTONIA. Translated by VIRGINIA VAUGHAN. .
III. MON SIEUR SYLVESTRE. Translated by FRAItoIs
GEORGE SHAW.
IV. THE MAN OFSN OW. Translated by VIRGINIA VAUGHAN.
V. THE MILLER OF ANGIBAULT. Translated by MIss
MARY E. DEWEY.

A standard Library Edition, uniformlybound in neat 16mo volumes. Each
volume sold separately. ﬁrice $1.50.

 

SOME NOTICES OF “MAUPRAT.”

“ An admirable translation. As to ‘ Mauprat,’ with which novel Roberts
Brothers introduce the ﬁrst of French novelists to the American public, it then
were any doubts as to George Sand’s power,‘it would for ever set them at rest.
. . . The object of the story is to show how, by her (Edmée’s) noble nature, he
(Mauprat) is subsequently transformed from a brute to a man; his sensual pas-
sion to a pure and holy love.” — Har‘per’s Monthly.

“ The excellence of George Sand, as we understand it, lies in her comprehen-
sion of the primitive elements of mankind. She has conquered her way into the
human heart, and whether it is at peace or at war, is the same to her; for she is
mistress of all its mobds. No woman before ever painted the passions and the
emotions with such force and ﬁdelity, and with such consummate art. Whatever
else she may be, she is always an artist. . . . Love is the key-note of ‘ Mauprat,’
-—love, and what it can accomplish in taming an otherwise untamable spirit.
The hero, Bernard Mauprat, grows up with his uncles, who are practically ban~
dits, as was not uncommon with men of their class, in the provinces, belore the
breaking out of the French Revolution. He is a young savage, of whom the best
that can be said is. that he is only less wicked than his relatives, because he has
somewhere within him a sense of generosity and honor, to which they are entire
strangers. To sting this sense into activity, to detect the makings of a man in this
brute. to make this brute into a man, is the difﬁcult problem, which is worked
out by love, -- the love of Bernard for his cousin Edmée, and hers for him, — the
love of two strong, passionate, noble natures, locked in a life-and-death struggle, ‘
in which the man is ﬁnally overcome by the unconquerable strength of woman-
hood. Only a gmat writer could have described such a struggle, and only a great
artist could have kept it within allowable limits. This George Sand has done, we
think; for her portrait of Bernard is vigorous without being coarse, and her situ-
ations are strong without being dangerous. Such, at least, is the impression we
have received from reading ‘ Mauprat.’ which, besides being an admirable study
of character. is also a ﬁne picture of French provincial life and manners.” — Put-
nam’s Monthly.

“ Roberts Brothers propose to publish a series of translations oi George
Band’s better novels. We can hardly say that all are worth appearing in English ;
but it is certain that the ‘ better ’ list will comprise a good many which are worth
translating, and among these is ‘Mauprat,’ — though by no means the best of
them. Written to show the possibility of constancy in man, a love inspired be-
fore and continuing through marriage, it is itself a contradiction to a good many
of the popular notions respecting the author,— who is generally supposed to be
as indifferent to the sanctities of the marriage relation as was her celebrated an-
cestor, Augustus of Saxony. . . . The translation is admirable. It is seldom that
one reads such good English in a work translated from any languge. The new .
series is inaugurated in the best possible way, under the hands of iss Vaughan
and we trust that she may have a great deal to do with its continmm. It
is 1:10;! every one who can row French who can write English so well” -—ma
a M.

 

Sold where Mailed, st id,onreceito theadvmisodpnoep
i, the 10%., pa W P f
ROBERTS BROTHERS. Bos'rou.

