‘M‘ESSRS. ROBERTS BROTHERS" PUBLIGATIUNS.

 

THE To-MORROW OF DEATH;
OR, "
THE FUTURE LIFE ACCORDING
TO SCIENCE.

By L 0 015 FIG UIE 1:.

i

Tnusum anon THE FRENCH, av S. R. CRochR. 1 vol. r6mo. $1.75.

From the Literary World.

As its striking, if somewhat sensational title indicates, the book deals with the
question of the future life, and purports to present “a complete theory of Nature,
:1 true philosophy of the Universe.” It is based on the ascertained facts of science
which the author marshals in sucha multitude, and with such skill, as must com-
mand the admiration of those who dismiss his theory with a sneer. We doubt if
the marvels of astronomy have ever had so impressive a presentation in popular
form as they have here. . . .

The Opening chapters of the book treat of the three elements which compose
man, -- body, soul, and .ife. The ﬁrst is not destroyed by death, but simply changes
its form: the last is a force, like light and heat, --a mere state of bodies; the soul
is indestructible and immortal. After death, according to M. Figuier, the soul be-
comes incarnated in a new body, and makes part of a new being next superior to
man in the scale of living existences, — the superhuman. This being lives in the
other which surrounds the earth and the other planets, where, endowed with senses
and faculties like ours, inﬁnitely improved, and many others that we know nothing
of, he leads a life whose spiritual delights it is impossible for us to imagine. . . .

Those who enjoy speculations about the future life will ﬁnd in this book fresh and
pleasant food for their imaginations; and, to those who delight in the revelations
of science as to the mysteries that obscure the origin and the destiny of man, these
pages offer a gallery of novel and really marvellous views. We may, perhaps, ex-
press our opinion of “ The To-Morrow of Death” at once comprehensively and
concisely, by saying that to every mind that welcomes light on these grave ques-
tions, from whatever quarter and in whatever shape it may come, regardless ot
precedents and authorities, this work will yield exquisite pleasure. It will shock
some readers, and amaze many; but it will fascinate and impress all.

Sold meme/la". Mailed, post-paid, by Me Publishers,
ROBERTS BROTHERS, Bosmx

(a?

